W3C

<http://www.w3.org/>


  Understanding WCAG 2.0


    A guide to understanding and implementing Web Content Accessibility
    Guidelines 2.0


    W3C Working Group Note 17 March 2016

This version:
    http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/ 
Latest version:
    http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/
Previous version:
    http://www.w3.org/TR/2015/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20150226/ 
Editors:
    Michael Cooper, W3C
    Andrew Kirkpatrick, Adobe Systems Inc.
    Joshue O Connor, InterAccess
Previous Editors:
    Loretta Guarino Reid (until May 2013 while at Google, Inc.)
    Gregg Vanderheiden (until May 2013 while at Trace R&D Center,
    University of Wisconsin-Madison)
    Ben Caldwell (until September 2010 while at Trace R&D Center,
    University of Wisconsin-Madison)
    Wendy Chisholm (until July 2006 while at W3C)
    John Slatin (until June 2006 while at Accessibility Institute,
    University of Texas at Austin)

This document is also available in these non-normative formats:

  * Single file version
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete.html>
  * Single file diff-marked version showing revisions since 26 February
    2015
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete-diff.html>, and 
  * Alternate Versions of Understanding WCAG 2.0
    <https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/versions/understanding/>, 

Copyright <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#Copyright> ©
2016 W3C <http://www.w3.org/>^® (MIT <http://www.csail.mit.edu/>, ERCIM
<http://www.ercim.eu/>, Keio <http://www.keio.ac.jp/>, Beihang
<http://ev.buaa.edu.cn/>). W3C liability
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#Legal_Disclaimer>,
trademark <http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/ipr-notice#W3C_Trademarks>
and document use
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Legal/copyright-documents> rules apply.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Abstract

This document, "Understanding WCAG 2.0," is an essential guide to
understanding and using Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/> [WCAG20] <#WCAG20>. It is part of a
series of documents that support WCAG 2.0. Please note that the contents
of this document are informative (they provide guidance), and not
normative (they do not set requirements for conforming to WCAG 2.0). See
Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php> for an introduction to WCAG,
supporting technical documents, and educational material.

WCAG 2.0 establishes a set of Success Criteria to define conformance to
the WCAG 2.0 Guidelines. A Success Criterion is a testable statement
that will be either true or false when applied to specific Web content.
"Understanding WCAG 2.0" provides detailed information about each
Success Criterion, including its intent, the key terms that are used in
the Success Criterion, and how the Success Criteria in WCAG 2.0 help
people with different types of disabilities. This document also provides
examples of Web content that meet the success criterion using various
Web technologies (for instance, HTML, CSS, XML), and common examples of
Web content that does not meet the success criterion.

This document indicates specific techniques to meet each Success
Criterion. Details for how to implement each technique are available in
Techniques for WCAG 2.0 <http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/>, but
"Understanding WCAG 2.0" provides the information about the relationship
of each technique to the Success Criteria. Techniques are categorized by
the level of support they provide for the Success Criteria. "Sufficient
techniques" are /sufficient/ to meet a particular Success Criterion
(either by themselves or in combination with other techniques), while
other techniques are advisory and therefore optional. None of the
techniques are /required/ to meet WCAG 2.0, although some may be the
only known method if a particular technology is used. "Advisory
techniques" are not sufficient to meet the Success Criteria on their own
(because they are not testable or provide incomplete support) but it is
encouraged that authors follow them when possible to provide enhanced
accessibility.

In addition to techniques for addressing the success criteria, "Common
Failures" are also documented. These "Common Failures" are authoring
practices that are known to cause Web content to fail to conform to WCAG
2.0. Authors must avoid those practices in order to meet the WCAG 2.0
Success Criteria.

This document is part of a series of documents published by the W3C Web
Accessibility Initiative (WAI) to support WCAG 2.0. This document was
published as a Working Group Note at the same time WCAG 2.0 was
published as a W3C Recommendation. Unlike WCAG 2.0, is expected that the
information in Understanding WCAG 2.0 will be updated from time to time.
See Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php> for an introduction to WCAG,
supporting technical documents, and educational material.


    Status of This Document

/This section describes the status of this document at the time of its
publication. Other documents may supersede this document. A list of
current W3C publications and the latest revision of this technical
report can be found in the W3C technical reports index
<http://www.w3.org/TR/> at http://www.w3.org/TR/./

This is a Working Group Note "Understanding WCAG 2.0". The Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines Working Group <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/>
considers this document to be important for understanding the success
criteria in the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) 2.0
Recommendation <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/>. Please
note that the contents of this document are informative (they provide
guidance), and not normative (they do not set requirements for
conforming to WCAG 2.0).

Understanding WCAG 2.0 was previously published on 11 December 2008 as a
Working Group Note and updated 14 October 2010, 3 January 2012, 5
September 2013, 3 March 2014, 8 April 2014, 16 September 2014, and 26
February 2015. This new version updates the support information provided
for WCAG 2.0. Note that WCAG 2.0 itself remains unchanged, only the
informative support materials have been updated. The only change in this
version is to add explanation about partial conformance claims due to
third-party content
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-partial-third-head>.

The changes are highlighted in the diff-marked version
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete-diff>.

The Working Group requests that any comments be made using the options
documented in Instructions for Commenting on WCAG 2.0 Documents
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/comments/>. If this is not possible,
comments can also be sent to public-comments-wcag20@w3.org
<mailto:public-comments-wcag20@w3.org>. The archives for the public
comments list
<http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-comments-wcag20/> are
publicly available. Comments received on this document may be addressed
in future versions of this document, or in another manner. Archives of
the WCAG WG mailing list discussions
<http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/w3c-wai-gl/> are also publicly
available, and future work undertaken by the Working Group may address
comments received on this document.

This document has been produced as part of the W3C Web Accessibility
Initiative <http://www.w3.org/WAI/> (WAI). The goals of the WCAG Working
Group are discussed in the WCAG Working Group charter
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/charter>. The WCAG Working Group is part of
the WAI Technical Activity <http://www.w3.org/WAI/Technical/Activity>.

Publication as a Working Group Note does not imply endorsement by the
W3C Membership. This is a draft document and may be updated, replaced or
obsoleted by other documents at any time. It is inappropriate to cite
this document as other than work in progress.

This document was produced by a group operating under the 5 February
2004 W3C Patent Policy
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/>. W3C maintains a
public list of any patent disclosures
<http://www.w3.org/2004/01/pp-impl/35422/status> made in connection with
the deliverables of the group; that page also includes instructions for
disclosing a patent. An individual who has actual knowledge of a patent
which the individual believes contains Essential Claim(s)
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/#def-essential>
must disclose the information in accordance with section 6 of the W3C
Patent Policy
<http://www.w3.org/Consortium/Patent-Policy-20040205/#sec-Disclosure>.

This document is governed by the 1 September 2015 W3C Process Document
<http://www.w3.org/2015/Process-20150901/>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Table of Contents

  * Abstract

    <#abstract>
  * Status of This Document

    <#status>
  * Introduction to Understanding WCAG 2.0

    <#intro>
  * Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria

    <#understanding-techniques>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.1 [Text Alternatives]

    <#text-equiv>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.1.1 [Non-text Content]

        <#text-equiv-all>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.2 [Time-based Media]

    <#media-equiv>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.1 [Audio-only and Video-only
        (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-av-only-alt>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.2 [Captions (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-captions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.3 [Audio Description or
        Media Alternative (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-audio-desc>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.4 [Captions (Live)]

        <#media-equiv-real-time-captions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.5 [Audio Description
        (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-audio-desc-only>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.6 [Sign Language (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-sign>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.7 [Extended Audio
        Description (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-extended-ad>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.8 [Media Alternative
        (Prerecorded)]

        <#media-equiv-text-doc>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.9 [Audio-only (Live)]

        <#media-equiv-live-audio-only>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.3 [Adaptable]

    <#content-structure-separation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1 [Info and Relationships]

        <#content-structure-separation-programmatic>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.2 [Meaningful Sequence]

        <#content-structure-separation-sequence>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.3 [Sensory Characteristics]

        <#content-structure-separation-understanding>
  * Understanding Guideline 1.4 [Distinguishable]

    <#visual-audio-contrast>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.1 [Use of Color]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-without-color>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.2 [Audio Control]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-dis-audio>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.3 [Contrast (Minimum)]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-contrast>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.4 [Resize text]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-scale>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.5 [Images of Text]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-text-presentation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.6 [Contrast (Enhanced)]

        <#visual-audio-contrast7>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.7 [Low or No Background Audio]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-noaudio>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.8 [Visual Presentation]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-visual-presentation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.9 [Images of Text (No
        Exception)]

        <#visual-audio-contrast-text-images>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.1 [Keyboard Accessible]

    <#keyboard-operation>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.1.1 [Keyboard]

        <#keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.1.2 [No Keyboard Trap]

        <#keyboard-operation-trapping>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.1.3 [Keyboard (No Exception)]

        <#keyboard-operation-all-funcs>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.2 [Enough Time]

    <#time-limits>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.1 [Timing Adjustable]

        <#time-limits-required-behaviors>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.2 [Pause, Stop, Hide]

        <#time-limits-pause>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.3 [No Timing]

        <#time-limits-no-exceptions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.4 [Interruptions]

        <#time-limits-postponed>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.5 [Re-authenticating]

        <#time-limits-server-timeout>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.3 [Seizures]

    <#seizure>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.3.1 [Three Flashes or Below
        Threshold]

        <#seizure-does-not-violate>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.3.2 [Three Flashes]

        <#seizure-three-times>
  * Understanding Guideline 2.4 [Navigable]

    <#navigation-mechanisms>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.1 [Bypass Blocks]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-skip>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.2 [Page Titled]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-title>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.3 [Focus Order]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-focus-order>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.4 [Link Purpose (In Context)]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-refs>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.5 [Multiple Ways]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-mult-loc>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.6 [Headings and Labels]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-descriptive>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.7 [Focus Visible]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.8 [Location]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-location>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.9 [Link Purpose (Link Only)]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-link>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.10 [Section Headings]

        <#navigation-mechanisms-headings>
  * Understanding Guideline 3.1 [Readable]

    <#meaning>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.1 [Language of Page]

        <#meaning-doc-lang-id>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.2 [Language of Parts]

        <#meaning-other-lang-id>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.3 [Unusual Words]

        <#meaning-idioms>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.4 [Abbreviations]

        <#meaning-located>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.5 [Reading Level]

        <#meaning-supplements>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.1.6 [Pronunciation]

        <#meaning-pronunciation>
  * Understanding Guideline 3.2 [Predictable]

    <#consistent-behavior>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.1 [On Focus]

        <#consistent-behavior-receive-focus>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.2 [On Input]

        <#consistent-behavior-unpredictable-change>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.3 [Consistent Navigation]

        <#consistent-behavior-consistent-locations>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.4 [Consistent Identification]

        <#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.2.5 [Change on Request]

        <#consistent-behavior-no-extreme-changes-context>
  * Understanding Guideline 3.3 [Input Assistance]

    <#minimize-error>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.1 [Error Identification]

        <#minimize-error-identified>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.2 [Labels or Instructions]

        <#minimize-error-cues>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.3 [Error Suggestion]

        <#minimize-error-suggestions>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.4 [Error Prevention (Legal,
        Financial, Data)]

        <#minimize-error-reversible>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.5 [Help]

        <#minimize-error-context-help>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.6 [Error Prevention (All)]

        <#minimize-error-reversible-all>
  * Understanding Guideline 4.1 [Compatible]

    <#ensure-compat>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 4.1.1 [Parsing]

        <#ensure-compat-parses>
      o Understanding Success Criterion 4.1.2 [Name, Role, Value]

        <#ensure-compat-rsv>
  * Understanding Conformance

    <#conformance>


      Appendices

  * Appendix A How to refer to WCAG 2.0 from other documents

    <#conformance-referencing>
  * Appendix B Documenting Accessibility Support for Uses of a Web
    Technology

    <#accessibility-support-documenting>
  * Appendix C Understanding Metadata

    <#understanding-metadata>
  * Appendix D Acknowledgements

    <#acknowledgements>
  * Appendix E References

    <#references>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Introduction to Understanding WCAG 2.0

Understanding WCAG 2.0 is an essential guide to understanding and using
"Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0" [WCAG20] <#WCAG20> Although
the normative definition and requirements for WCAG 2.0 can all be found
in the WCAG 2.0 document itself, the concepts and provisions may be new
to some people. Understanding WCAG 2.0 provides a non-normative extended
commentary on each guideline and each Success Criterion to help readers
better understand the intent and how the guidelines and Success Criteria
work together. It also provides examples of techniques or combinations
of techniques that the Working Group has identified as being sufficient
to meet each Success Criterion. Links are then provided to write-ups for
each of the techniques.

This is not an introductory document. It is a detailed technical
description of the guidelines and their Success Criteria. See Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) Overview
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/wcag.php> for an introduction to WCAG,
supporting technical documents, and educational material.

Understanding WCAG 2.0 is organized by guideline. There is an
/Understanding Guideline X.X/ section for each guideline. The intent and
any advisory techniques that are related to the guideline but not
specifically related to any of its Success Criteria are listed there as
well.

The /Understanding Guidelines X.X/ section is then followed by a
/Understanding Success Criterion X.X.X/ section for each Success
Criterion of that guideline. These sections each contain:

  *

    The Success Criterion as it appears in WCAG 2.0

  *

    Intent of the Success Criterion

  *

    Benefits (how the Success Criterion helps people with disabilities)

  *

    Examples

  *

    Related Resources

  *

    Techniques or combinations of techniques that are sufficient to meet
    the guidelines

  *

    Common failures of this Success Criterion

  *

    Additional advisory techniques that go beyond what is required to
    meet the Success Criterion but can be used to make some or all types
    of content more accessible. Use of advisory techniques does not
    impact the level of conformance claimed.

  *

    Key terms for this Success Criterion (taken from the WCAG 2.0 Glossary)

Links are provided from each Guideline in WCAG 2.0 directly to each
/Understanding Guideline X.X/ in this document. Similarly, there is a
link from each Success Criterion in WCAG 2.0 to the /Understanding
Success Criterion X.X.X/ section in this document.

For information about individual techniques, follow the links throughout
this document to the techniques of interest in the Techniques for WCAG
2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document.

For links to information on different disabilities and assistive
technologies see Disabilities on Wikipedia
<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Disability>.


      Understanding the Four Principles of Accessibility

The guidelines and Success Criteria are organized around the following
four principles, which lay the foundation necessary for anyone to access
and use Web content. Anyone who wants to use the Web must have content
that is:

 1.

    Perceivable - Information and user interface components must be
    presentable to users in ways they can perceive.

      *

        This means that users must be able to perceive the information
        being presented (it can't be invisible to all of their senses)

 2.

    Operable - User interface components and navigation must be operable.

      *

        This means that users must be able to operate the interface (the
        interface cannot require interaction that a user cannot perform)

 3.

    Understandable - Information and the operation of user interface
    must be understandable.

      *

        This means that users must be able to understand the information
        as well as the operation of the user interface (the content or
        operation cannot be beyond their understanding)

 4.

    Robust - Content must be robust enough that it can be interpreted
    reliably by a wide variety of user agents, including assistive
    technologies.

      *

        This means that users must be able to access the content as
        technologies advance (as technologies and user agents evolve,
        the content should remain accessible)

If any of these are not true, users with disabilities will not be able
to use the Web.

Under each of the principles are guidelines and Success Criteria that
help to address these principles for people with disabilities. There are
many general usability guidelines that make content more usable by all
people, including those with disabilities. However, in WCAG 2.0, we only
include those guidelines that address problems particular to people with
disabilities. This includes issues that block access or interfere with
access to the Web more severely for people with disabilities.


      Layers of Guidance


        The Guidelines

Under each principle there is a list of guidelines that address the
principle. There are a total of 12 guidelines. A convenient list of just
the guidelines can be found in the WCAG 2.0 table of contents
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contents>. One of the
key objectives of the guidelines is to ensure that content is directly
accessible to as many people as possible, and capable of being
re-presented in different forms to match different peoples' sensory,
physical and cognitive abilities.


        Success Criteria

Under each guideline, there are Success Criteria that describe
specifically what must be achieved in order to conform
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformancedef> to this
standard. They are similar to the "checkpoints" in WCAG 1.0. Each
Success Criterion is written as a statement that will be either true or
false when specific Web content is tested against it. The Success
Criteria are written to be technology neutral.

All WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria are written as testable criteria for
objectively determining if content satisfies the Success Criteria. While
some of the testing can be automated using software evaluation programs,
others require human testers for part or all of the test.

Although content may satisfy the Success Criteria, the content may not
always be usable by people with a wide variety of disabilities.
Professional reviews utilizing recognized qualitative heuristics are
important in achieving accessibility for some audiences. In addition,
usability testing is recommended. Usability testing aims to determine
how well people can use the content for its intended purpose.

The content should be tested by those who understand how people with
different types of disabilities use the Web. It is recommended that
users with disabilities be included in test groups when performing human
testing.

Each Success Criterion for a guideline has a link to the section of the
How to Meet document that provides:

  *

    sufficient techniques for meeting the Success Criterion,

  *

    optional advisory techniques, and

  *

    descriptions of the intent of the Success Criteria, including
    benefits, and examples.


        Sufficient Techniques, Advisory Techniques, and Failures

The next section, /Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<#understanding-techniques>/, provides important information about the
techniques.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria

WCAG 2.0 guidelines and success criteria are designed to be broadly
applicable to current and future web technologies, including dynamic
applications, mobile, digital television, etc. They are stable and do
not change.

Specific guidance for authors and evaluators on meeting the WCAG success
criteria is provided in techniques, which include code examples,
resources, and tests. W3C's Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document is updated periodically,
about twice per year, to cover more current best practices and changes
in technologies and tools.

The three types of guidance in Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> are explained below:

  *

    Sufficient techniques

  *

    Advisory techniques

  *

    Failures

Also explained below:

  *

    General and technology-specific techniques - which can be sufficient
    or advisory

  *

    Other techniques - beyond what is in W3C's published document

  *

    Technique tests

  *

    User agent and assistive technology support

  *

    Using the techniques - with important considerations

Understanding Conformance
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance> provides related
information, including on understanding accessibility support
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance#uc-accessibility-support-head>.


      Techniques are Informative

/Techniques are informative—that means they are not required. The basis
for determining conformance to WCAG 2.0 is the success criteria from the
WCAG 2.0 standard—not the techniques./

/Note 1: /W3C cautions against requiring W3C's sufficient techniques.
The only thing that should be required is meeting the WCAG 2.0 success
criteria. To learn more, see:

  *

    What would be the negative consequences of allowing /only/ W3C's
    published techniques to be used for conformance to WCAG 2.0?
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/wcag2faq.html#techsnot> in the WCAG 2 FAQ

/Note 2: / Techniques for WCAG 2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/>
uses the words "must" and "should" only to clarify guidance within the
techniques, not to convey requirements for WCAG.


      Sufficient Techniques

/Sufficient techniques/ are reliable ways to meet the success criteria.

  *

    From an author's perspective: If you use the sufficient techniques
    for a given criterion correctly and it is accessibility-supported
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    for your users, you can be confident that you met the success criterion.

  *

    From an evaluator's perspective: If web content implements the
    sufficient techniques for a given criterion correctly and it is
    accessibility-supported
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    for the content's users, it conforms to that success criterion. (The
    converse is not true; if content does not implement these sufficient
    techniques, it does not necessarily fail the success criteria, as
    explained in Testing Techniques
    <#ut-understanding-techniques-tests-head> below.)

There may be other ways to meet success criteria besides the sufficient
techniques in W3C's Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document, as explained in Other
Techniques <#ut-understanding-techniques-othertechs-head> below. /(See
also Techniques are Informative
<#ut-understanding-techniques-informative-head> above.)/


        Numbered Lists, "AND"

The W3C-documented sufficient techniques are provided in a numbered list
where each list item provides a technique or combination of techniques
that can be used to meet the success criterion. Where there are multiple
techniques on a numbered list item connected by "AND" then all of the
techniques must be used to be sufficient. For example, Sufficient
Techniques for 1.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/complete#content-structure-separation-programmatic-techniques-head>
has: "G115: Using semantic elements to mark up structure AND H49: Using
semantic markup to mark emphasized or special text (HTML)".


      Advisory Techniques

/Advisory techniques/ are suggested ways to improve accessibility. They
are often very helpful to some users, and may be the only way that some
users can access some types of content.

Advisory techniques are not designated as sufficient techniques for
various reasons such as:

  *

    they may not be sufficient to meet the full requirements of the
    success criteria;

  *

    they may be based on technology that is not yet stable;

  *

    they may not be accessibility supported
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    in many cases (for example, assistive technologies do not work with
    them yet);

  *

    they may not be testable;

  *

    in some circumstances they may not be applicable or practical, and
    may even decrease accessibility for some users while increasing it
    for others;

  *

    they may not address the success criterion itself, and instead
    provide related accessibility benefits.

Authors are encouraged to apply all of the techniques where appropriate
to best address the widest range of users' needs.


      Failures

/Failures/ are things that cause accessibility barriers and fail
specific success criteria. The documented /failures/ are useful for:

  *

    Authors to know what to avoid,

  *

    Evaluators to use for checking if content does not meet WCAG success
    criteria.

Content that has a /failure/ does not meet WCAG success criteria, unless
an alternate version is provided without the failure.

If anyone identifies a situation where a documented failure is not
correct, please report the situation as a WCAG comment
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/comments/> so that it can be corrected or
deleted as appropriate.


      General and Technology-specific Techniques

/General techniques/ describe basic practices that apply to all
technologies. /Technology-specific techniques/ apply to a specific
technology.

Some success criteria do not have technology-specific techniques and are
covered only with general techniques. Therefore, both the general
techniques and the relevant technology-specific techniques should be
considered.

Publication of techniques for a specific technology does not imply that
the technology can be used in all situations to create content that
meets WCAG 2.0 success criteria and conformance requirements. Developers
need to be aware of the limitations of specific technologies and provide
content in a way that is accessible to people with disabilities.


      Other Techniques

In addition to the techniques in W3C's Techniques for WCAG 2.0
<https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document, /there are other ways to
meet WCAG success criteria/. W3C's techniques are not comprehensive and
may not cover newer technologies and situations.

/Web content does not have to use W3C's published techniques in order to
conform to WCAG 2.0./ /(See also Techniques are Informative
<#ut-understanding-techniques-informative-head> above.)/

Content authors can develop different techniques. For example, an author
could develop a technique for HTML5, WAI-ARIA
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/aria>, or other new technology. Other
organizations may develop sets of techniques to meet WCAG 2.0 success
criteria.

Any techniques can be sufficient if:

  *

    they satisfy the success criterion, and

  *

    all of the WCAG 2.0 conformance requirements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html> are met.


        Submitting Techniques

The WCAG Working Group encourages people to submit new techniques so
that they can be considered for inclusion in updates of the Techniques
for WCAG 2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> document. Please
submit techniques for consideration using the Techniques Submission Form
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/WCAG20/TECHS-SUBMIT/>.


      Testing Techniques

Each technique has tests that help:

  *

    authors verify that they implemented the technique properly, and

  *

    evaluators determine if web content meets the technique.

The tests are only for a technique, they are not tests for conformance
to WCAG success criteria.

  *

    Failing a technique test does not necessarily mean failing WCAG,
    because the techniques are discrete (that is, they address one
    specific point) and they are not required.

  *

    Content can meet WCAG success criteria in different ways other than
    W3C's published sufficient techniques.

  *

    Content that passes the sufficient techniques for a specific
    technology does not necessarily meet all WCAG success criteria. Some
    success criteria have only general techniques, not
    technology-specific techniques.

  *

    The content must be accessibility supported
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>
    for the content's users. Some sufficient techniques require browser,
    assistive technology, or other support that some users might not have.

Thus while the techniques are useful for evaluating content, evaluations
must go beyond just checking the sufficient technique tests in order to
evaluate how content conforms to WCAG success criteria.

/Failures/ are particularly useful for evaluations because they do
indicate non-conformance (unless an alternate version is provided
without the failure).


      User Agent and Assistive Technology Support Notes

Some techniques require that web content users have specific browsers or
assistive technologies in order for the technique to be
accessibility-supported
<http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>.
The /User Agent and Assistive Technology Support Notes/ sections of
individual techniques include some information to help determine
accessibility support.


        Support Notes Change Over Time

As time passes, the versions of user agents (browsers, etc.) or
assistive technologies listed may not be the current versions. The
Working Group may not update most of these notes as new versions are
released. Authors should test techniques with the user agents and
assistive technologies currently available to their users. See also
Understanding Accessibility Support
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>.


      Using the Techniques

Techniques for WCAG 2.0 <https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/> is not
intended to be used as a stand-alone document. Instead, it is expected
that content authors will usually use How to Meet WCAG 2.0: A
customizable quick reference <http://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG20/quickref/> to
read the WCAG success criteria, and follow links from there to specific
topics in Understanding WCAG 2.0 and to specific techniques.


        Alternatives must meet success criteria

Some techniques describe how to provide alternate ways for users to get
content. For example, G73: Providing a long description in another
location... <http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-HTML-TECHS/G73> mentions a
transcript as an alternative for an audio file. Some alternatives must
also conform to WCAG. For example, the transcript itself must meet all
relevant success criteria.


        Example Code

The code examples in the techniques are intended to demonstrate only the
specific point discussed in the technique. They might not demonstrate
best practice for other aspects of accessibility, usability, or coding
not related to the technique. They are not intended to be copied and
used as the basis for developing web content.

Many techniques point to "working examples" that are more robust and may
be appropriate for copying and integrating into web content.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Text Alternatives*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.1

    *Guideline 1.1: *Provide text alternatives for any non-text content
    so that it can be changed into other forms people need, such as
    large print, braille, speech, symbols or simpler language.


      Intent of Guideline 1.1

The purpose of this guideline is to ensure that all non-text content is
also available in text
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef>. "Text" refers
to electronic text, not an image of text. Electronic text has the unique
advantage that it is presentation neutral. That is, it can be rendered
visually, auditorily, tactilely, or by any combination. As a result,
information rendered in electronic text can be presented in whatever
form best meets the needs of the user. It can also be easily enlarged,
spoken aloud so that it is easier for people with reading disabilities
to understand, or rendered in whatever tactile form best meets the needs
of a user.

/Note: /While changing the content into symbols includes changing it
into graphic symbols for people with developmental disorders and speech
comprehension difficulties, it is not limited to this use of symbols.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 1.1 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Providing sign language videos for audio-only files (future link)


    *Non-text Content*:
    Understanding SC 1.1.1

    *1.1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-equiv-all>
    Non-text Content:* All non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#non-text-contentdef>
    that is presented to the user has a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> that
    serves the equivalent purpose, except for the situations listed
    below. (Level A)

      *

        *Controls, Input: * If non-text content is a control or accepts
        user input, then it has a name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#namedef> that
        describes its purpose. (Refer to /Guideline 4.1
        <#ensure-compat>/ for additional requirements for controls and
        content that accepts user input.)

      *

        *Time-Based Media: * If non-text content is time-based media,
        then text alternatives at least provide descriptive
        identification of the non-text content. (Refer to /Guideline 1.2
        <#media-equiv>/ for additional requirements for media.)

      *

        *Test: * If non-text content is a test or exercise that would be
        invalid if presented in text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef>, then
        text alternatives at least provide descriptive identification of
        the non-text content.

      *

        *Sensory: * If non-text content is primarily intended to create
        a specific sensory experience
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sensoryexpdef>,
        then text alternatives at least provide descriptive
        identification of the non-text content.

      *

        *CAPTCHA
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#CAPTCHAdef>: *If
        the purpose of non-text content is to confirm that content is
        being accessed by a person rather than a computer, then text
        alternatives that identify and describe the purpose of the
        non-text content are provided, and alternative forms of CAPTCHA
        using output modes for different types of sensory perception are
        provided to accommodate different disabilities.

      *

        *Decoration, Formatting, Invisible: *If non-text content is pure
        decoration
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef>, is
        used only for visual formatting, or is not presented to users,
        then it is implemented in a way that it can be ignored by
        assistive technology
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by
non-text content accessible through the use of a text alternative. Text
alternatives are a primary way for making information accessible because
they can be rendered through any sensory modality (for example, visual,
auditory or tactile) to match the needs of the user. Providing text
alternatives allows the information to be rendered in a variety of ways
by a variety of user agents. For example, a person who cannot see a
picture can have the text alternative read aloud using synthesized
speech. A person who cannot hear an audio file can have the text
alternative displayed so that he or she can read it. In the future, text
alternatives will also allow information to be more easily translated
into sign language or into a simpler form of the same language.


        Note on CAPTCHA

CAPTCHAs are a controversial topic in the accessibility community. As is
described in the paper Inaccessibility of CAPTCHA
<http://www.w3.org/TR/turingtest/>, CAPTCHAs intrinsically push the
edges of human abilities in an attempt to defeat automated processes.
Every type of CAPTCHA will be unsolvable by users with certain
disabilities. However, they are widely used, and the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines Working Group believes that if CAPTCHAs were
forbidden outright, Web sites would choose not to conform to WCAG rather
than abandon CAPTCHA. This would create barriers for a great many more
users with disabilities. For this reason the Working Group has chosen to
structure the requirement about CAPTCHA in a way that meets the needs of
most people with disabilities, yet is also considered adoptable by
sites. Requiring two different forms of CAPTCHA on a given site ensures
that most people with disabilities will find a form they can use.

Because some users with disabilities will still not be able to access
sites that meet the minimum requirements, the Working Group provides
recommendations for additional steps. Organizations motivated to conform
to WCAG should be aware of the importance of this topic and should go as
far beyond the minimum requirements of the guidelines as possible.
Additional recommended steps include:

  *

    Providing more than two modalities of CAPTCHAs

  *

    Providing access to a human customer service representative who can
    bypass CAPTCHA

  *

    Not requiring CAPTCHAs for authorized users


        Additional information

Non-text content can take a number of forms, and this Success Criterion
specifies how each is to be handled.

*For non-text content that is not covered by one of the other situations
listed below,* such as charts, diagrams, audio recordings, pictures, and
animations, text alternatives can make the same information available in
a form that can be rendered through any modality (for example, visual,
auditory or tactile). Short and long text alternatives can be used as
needed to convey the information in the non-text content. Note that
*prerecorded audio-only* and *prerecorded video-only* files are covered
here. *Live-audio-only* and *Live-video-only* files are covered below
(see 3rd paragraph following this one).

*For non-text content that is a control or accepts user input*, such as
images used as submit buttons, image maps or complex animations, a name
is provided to describe the purpose of the non-text content so that the
person at least knows what the non-text content is and why it is there.

*Non-text content that is time-based media* is made accessible through
/1.2 <#media-equiv>/. However, it is important that users know what it
is when they encounter it on a page so they can decide what action if
any they want to take with it. A text alternative that describes the
time-based media and/or gives its title is therefore provided.

*For Live Audio-only and live video-only content*, it can be much more
difficult to provide text alternatives that provide equivalent
information as live audio-only and live video-only content. For these
types of non-text content, text alternatives provide a descriptive label.

*Sometimes a test or exercise must be partially or completely presented
in non-text format.* Audio or visual information is provided that cannot
be changed to text because the test or exercise must be conducted using
that sense. For example, a hearing test would be invalid if a text
alternative were provided. A visual skill development exercise would
similarly make no sense in text form. And a spelling test with text
alternatives would not be very effective. For these cases, text
alternatives should be provided to describe the purpose of the non-text
content; of course, the text alternatives would not provide the same
information needed to pass the test.

*Sometimes content is primarily intended to create a specific sensory
experience* that words cannot fully capture. Examples include a symphony
performance, works of visual art etc. For such content, text
alternatives at least identify the non-text content with a descriptive
label and where possible, additional descriptive text. If the reason for
including the content in the page is known and can be described it is
helpful to include that information.

*Sometimes there are non-text exercises that are used to prove you are
human.* To avoid spam robots and other software from gaining access to a
site a device called a CAPTCHA is used. These usually involve visual or
auditory tasks that are beyond the current capabilities of Web robots.
Providing a text alternative to them would however make them operable by
Robots, thus defeating their purpose. In this case a text alternative
would describe the purpose of the CAPTCHA, and alternate forms using
different modalities would be provided to address the needs of people
with different disabilities.

*Sometimes there is non-text content that really is not meant to be seen
or understood by the user.* Transparent images used to move text over on
a page; an invisible image that is used to track usage statistics; and a
swirl in the corner that conveys no information but just fills up a
blank space to create an aesthetic effect are all examples of this.
Putting alternative text on such items just distracts people using
screen readers from the content on the page. Not marking the content in
any way, though, leaves users guessing what the non-text content is and
what information they may have missed (even though they have not missed
anything in reality). This type of non-text content, therefore, is
marked or implemented in a way that assistive technologies (AT) will
ignore it and not present anything to the user.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.1.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people who have difficulty perceiving
    visual content. Assistive technology can read text aloud, present it
    visually, or convert it to braille.

  *

    Text alternatives may help some people who have difficulty
    understanding the meaning of photographs, drawings, and other images
    (e.g., line drawings, graphic designs, paintings, three-dimensional
    representations), graphs, charts, animations, etc.

  *

    People who are deaf, are hard of hearing, or who are having trouble
    understanding audio information for any reason can read the text
    presentation. Research is ongoing regarding automatic translation of
    text into sign language.

  *

    People who are deaf-blind can read the text in braille.

  *

    Additionally, text alternatives support the ability to search for
    non-text content and to repurpose content in a variety of ways.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.1.1

 1.

    *A data chart*

    A bar chart compares how many widgets were sold in June, July, and
    August. The short label says, "Figure one - Sales in June, July and
    August." The longer description identifies the type of chart,
    provides a high-level summary of the data, trends and implications
    comparable to those available from the chart. Where possible and
    practical, the actual data is provided in a table.

 2.

    *An audio recording of a speech*

    The link to an audio clip says, "Chairman's speech to the assembly."
    A link to a text transcript is provided immediately after the link
    to the audio clip.

 3.

    *An animation that illustrates how a car engine works*

    An animation shows how a car engine works. There is no audio and the
    animation is part of a tutorial that describes how an engine works.
    Since the text of the tutorial already provides a full explanation,
    the image is an alternative for text and the text alternative
    includes only a brief description of the animation and refers to the
    tutorial text for more information.

 4.

    *A traffic Web camera*

    A Web site allows users to select from a variety of Web cameras
    positioned throughout a major city. After a camera is selected, the
    image updates every two minutes. A short text alternative identifies
    the Web camera as "traffic Web camera." The site also provides a
    table of travel times for each of the routes covered by the Web
    cameras. The table is also updated every two minutes.

 5.

    *A photograph of an historic event in a news story*

    A photograph of two world leaders shaking hands accompanies a news
    story about an international summit meeting. The text alternative
    says, "President X of Country X shakes hands with Prime Minister Y
    of country Y."

 6.

    *A photograph of a historic event in content discussing diplomatic
    relationships*

    The same image is used in a different context intended to explain
    nuances in diplomatic encounters. The image of the president shaking
    hands with the prime minister appears on a Web site discussing
    intricate diplomatic relationships. The first text alternative
    reads, "President X of country X shakes hands with Prime Minister Y
    of country Y on January 2, 2009." An additional text alternative
    describes the room where the leaders are standing as well as the
    expressions on the leaders' faces, and identifies the other people
    in the room. The additional description might be included on the
    same page as the photograph or in a separate file associated with
    the image through a link or other standard programmatic mechanism.

 7.

    *An audio recording of a press conference *

    A Web page includes a link to an audio recording of a press
    conference. The link text identifies the audio recording. The page
    also links to a text transcript of the press conference. The
    transcript includes a verbatim record of everything the speakers
    say. It identifies who is speaking as well as noting other
    significant sounds that are part of the recording, such as applause,
    laughter, questions from the audience, and so on.

 8.

    *An e-learning application *

    An e-learning application uses sound effects to indicate whether or
    not the answers are correct. The chime sound indicates that the
    answer is correct and the beep sound indicates that the answer is
    incorrect. A text description is also included so that people who
    can't hear or understand the sound understand whether the answer is
    correct or incorrect.

 9.

    *A linked thumbnail image *

    A thumbnail image of the front page of a newspaper links to the home
    page of the "Smallville Times". The text alternative says
    "Smallville Times".

10.

    *The same image used on different sites *

    Different alternatives for an image of the world: An image of the
    world that is used on a travel site as a link to the International
    Travel section has the text alternative "International Travel". The
    same image is used as a link on a university Web site with the text
    alternative "International Campuses".

11.

    *An image map *

    An image of a building floor plan is interactive, allowing the user
    to select a particular room and navigate to a page containing
    information about that room. The short text alternative describes
    the image and its interactive purpose: "Building floor plan. Select
    a room for more information."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Excerpts from the NBA Tape Recording Manual, Third Edition
    <http://www.w3.org/2000/08/nba-manual/Overview.html>

  *

    Inaccessibility of CAPTCHA <http://www.w3.org/TR/turingtest/>

  *

    All That Malarkey: Accessible Alternatives
    <https://stuffandnonsense.co.uk/archives/accessible_alternatives.html>

  *

    456 Berea Street: The Alt and Title Attributes
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200412/the_alt_and_title_attributes/>


  *

    The Alt and Accessibility <http://green-beast.com/blog/?p=81>

  *

    Better Connected, Better Results: Alt Text
    <http://www.accessibilitynews.ca/cwdo/resources/resources.php?resources=187>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.1.1 - Non-text Content

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a short description can serve the same purpose
          and present the same information as the non-text content:

 1.

    G94: Providing short text alternative for non-text content that
    serves the same purpose and presents the same information as the
    non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G94> using one
    of the following *Short text alternative techniques for Situation A
    <#text-equiv-all-situation-a-shorttext> *:

*Short text alternative techniques for Situation A*:

  *

    ARIA6: Using aria-label to provide labels for objects
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA6> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA10: Using aria-labelledby to provide a text alternative for
    non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA10> (ARIA)

  *

    G196: Using a text alternative on one item within a group of images
    that describes all items in the group
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G196>

  *

    FLASH1: Setting the name property for a non-text object
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH1> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH5> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH28: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH28> (Flash)

  *

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2> (HTML)

  *

    H35: Providing text alternatives on applet elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H35> (HTML)

  *

    H37: Using alt attributes on img elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H37> (HTML)

  *

    H53: Using the body of the object element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H53> (HTML)

  *

    H86: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H86>
    (HTML)

  *

    PDF1: Applying text alternatives to images with the Alt entry in PDF
    documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF1> (PDF)

  *

    SL5: Defining a Focusable Image Class for Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL5>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: If a short description can *not* serve the same
          purpose and present the same information as the non-text
          content (e.g., a chart or diagram):

 1.

    G95: Providing short text alternatives that provide a brief
    description of the non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G95> using one
    of the following *Short text alternative techniques for Situation B
    <#text-equiv-all-situation-b-shorttext> * *AND* one of the following
    *Long text alternative techniques for Situation B
    <#text-equiv-all-situation-b-longtext> *:

*Short text alternative techniques for Situation B*:

  *

    ARIA6: Using aria-label to provide labels for objects
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA6> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA10: Using aria-labelledby to provide a text alternative for
    non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA10> (ARIA)

  *

    G196: Using a text alternative on one item within a group of images
    that describes all items in the group
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G196>

  *

    FLASH1: Setting the name property for a non-text object
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH1> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH5> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH28: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH28> (Flash)

  *

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2> (HTML)

  *

    H35: Providing text alternatives on applet elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H35> (HTML)

  *

    H37: Using alt attributes on img elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H37> (HTML)

  *

    H53: Using the body of the object element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H53> (HTML)

  *

    H86: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H86>
    (HTML)

  *

    PDF1: Applying text alternatives to images with the Alt entry in PDF
    documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF1> (PDF)

  *

    SL5: Defining a Focusable Image Class for Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL5>
    (Silverlight)

*Long text alternative techniques for Situation B*:

  *

    ARIA15: Using aria-describedby to provide descriptions of images
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA15> (ARIA)

  *

    G73: Providing a long description in another location with a link to
    it that is immediately adjacent to the non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G73>

  *

    G74: Providing a long description in text near the non-text content,
    with a reference to the location of the long description in the
    short description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G74>

  *

    G92: Providing long description for non-text content that serves the
    same purpose and presents the same information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G92>

  *

    FLASH2: Setting the description property for a non-text object in
    Flash <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH2>
    (Flash)

  *

    FLASH11: Providing a longer text description of an object
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH11> (Flash)

  *

    H45: Using longdesc
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H45> (HTML)

  *

    H53: Using the body of the object element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H53> (HTML)

  *

    SL8: Displaying HelpText in Silverlight User Interfaces
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL8>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation C: If non-text content is a control or accepts user
          input:

 1.

    G82: Providing a text alternative that identifies the purpose of the
    non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G82> using one
    of the following *Text alternative techniques for controls and input
    for Situation C <#text-equiv-all-situation-c-controls> *:

*Text alternative techniques for controls and input for Situation C*:

  *

    ARIA6: Using aria-label to provide labels for objects
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA6> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA9: Using aria-labelledby to concatenate a label from several
    text nodes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA9> (ARIA)

  *

    FLASH6: Creating accessible hotspots using invisible buttons
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH6> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH25: Labeling a form control by setting its accessible name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH25> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH27: Providing button labels that describe the purpose of a
    button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH27> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH29: Setting the label property for form components
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH29> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH30: Specifying accessible names for image buttons
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH30> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH32: Using auto labeling to associate text labels with form
    controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH32> (Flash)

  *

    H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H24> (HTML)

  *

    H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for
    anchor elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H30> (HTML)

  *

    H36: Using alt attributes on images used as submit buttons
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H36> (HTML)

  *

    H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form
    controls <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H44>
    (HTML)

  *

    H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when the
    label element cannot be used
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H65> (HTML)

  *

    SL18: Providing Text Equivalent for Nontext Silverlight Controls
    With AutomationProperties.Name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL18>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    SL26: Using LabeledBy to Associate Labels and Targets in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL26>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    SL30: Using Silverlight Control Compositing and
    AutomationProperties.Name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL30>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation D: If non-text content is time-based media
          (including live video-only and live audio-only); a test or
          exercise that would be invalid if presented in text; or
          primarily intended to create a specific sensory experience:

 1.

    Providing a descriptive label using one of the following *Short text
    alternative techniques for Situation D
    <#text-equiv-all-situation-d-shorttext> *:

 2.

    G68: Providing a short text alternative that describes the purpose
    of live audio-only and live video-only content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G68> using one
    of the following *Short text alternative techniques for Situation D
    <#text-equiv-all-situation-d-shorttext> *:

 3.

    G100: Providing a short text alternative which is the accepted name
    or a descriptive name of the non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G100> using
    one of the following *Short text alternative techniques for
    Situation D <#text-equiv-all-situation-d-shorttext> *:

*Short text alternative techniques for Situation D*:

  *

    ARIA6: Using aria-label to provide labels for objects
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA6> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA10: Using aria-labelledby to provide a text alternative for
    non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA10> (ARIA)

  *

    G196: Using a text alternative on one item within a group of images
    that describes all items in the group
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G196>

  *

    FLASH1: Setting the name property for a non-text object
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH1> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH5> (Flash)

  *

    FLASH28: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH28> (Flash)

  *

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2> (HTML)

  *

    H35: Providing text alternatives on applet elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H35> (HTML)

  *

    H37: Using alt attributes on img elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H37> (HTML)

  *

    H53: Using the body of the object element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H53> (HTML)

  *

    H86: Providing text alternatives for ASCII art, emoticons, and
    leetspeak <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H86>
    (HTML)

  *

    PDF1: Applying text alternatives to images with the Alt entry in PDF
    documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF1> (PDF)

  *

    SL5: Defining a Focusable Image Class for Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL5>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation E: If non-text content is a CAPTCHA:

 1.

    G143: Providing a text alternative that describes the purpose of the
    CAPTCHA <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G143>
    *AND* G144: Ensuring that the Web Page contains another CAPTCHA
    serving the same purpose using a different modality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G144>


          Situation F: If the non-text content should be ignored by
          assistive technology:

 1.

    Implementing or marking the non-text content so that it will be
    ignored by assistive technology using one of the following
    *Techniques to indicate that text alternatives are not required for
    Situation F <#text-equiv-all-situation-f-notrequired> *:

*Techniques to indicate that text alternatives are not required for
Situation F*:

  *

    C9: Using CSS to include decorative images
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C9> (CSS)

  *

    FLASH3: Marking objects in Flash so that they can be ignored by AT
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH3> (Flash)

  *

    H67: Using null alt text and no title attribute on img elements for
    images that AT should ignore
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H67> (HTML)

  *

    PDF4: Hiding decorative images with the Artifact tag in PDF
    documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF4> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.1.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          General Techniques for Informative Non-Text Content (Advisory)

  *

    Identifying informative non-text content (future link)

  *

    Keeping short descriptions short (future link)

  *

    Describing images that include text (future link)

  *

    Providing a longer description of the non-text content where only a
    descriptive label is required using a technology-specific technique
    (for an accessibility-supported content technology) for long
    description listed above (future link)

  *

    Providing different sizes for non-text content when it cannot have
    an equivalent accessible alternative (future link)

  *

    Using server-side scripts to resize images of text (future link)


          General Techniques for Live Non-Text Content (Advisory)

  *

    Linking to textual information that provides comparable information
    (e.g., for a traffic Webcam, a municipality could provide a link to
    the text traffic report.) (future link)


          General techniques to minimize the barrier of CAPTCHAs

  *

    Providing more than two modalities of CAPTCHAs (future link)

  *

    Providing access to a human customer service representative who can
    bypass CAPTCHA (future link)

  *

    Not requiring CAPTCHAs for authorized users (future link)


          HTML Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    H46: Using noembed with embed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H46> (HTML)

  *

    Writing for browsers that do not support frame (future link)

  *

    Providing alternative content for iframe (future link)

  *

    Not using long descriptions for iframe (future link)

  *

    Providing redundant text links for client-side image maps (future link)


          CSS Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    C18: Using CSS margin and padding rules instead of spacer images for
    layout design
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C18> (CSS)

  *

    Using CSS background, :before or :after rules for decorative images
    instead of img elements (future link)

  *

    Displaying empty table cells (future link)


          WAI-ARIA Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    Using the ARIA presentation role to indicate elements are purely
    presentational (future link)


          Silverlight Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    SL19: Providing User Instructions With AutomationProperties.HelpText
    in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL19>
    (Silverlight)


          Metadata Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    Using metadata to associate text transcriptions with a video (future
    link)

  *

    Using metadata to associate text transcriptions with audio-only
    content (future link)

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that points to an audio
        description and a text transcript of a video.

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to several
        text transcripts (English, French, Dutch) of an audio file.


        Common Failures for SC 1.1.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.1.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F3: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to using CSS to include
    images that convey important information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F3>

  *

    F13: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.4.1 due to having a
    text alternative that does not include information that is conveyed
    by color differences in the image
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F13>

  *

    F20: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 4.1.2 due to not
    updating text alternatives when changes to non-text content occur
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F20>

  *

    F30: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to using text
    alternatives that are not alternatives (e.g., filenames or
    placeholder text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F30>

  *

    F38: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to not marking up
    decorative images in HTML in a way that allows assistive technology
    to ignore them
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F38>

  *

    F39: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to providing a text
    alternative that is not null (e.g., alt="spacer" or alt="image") for
    images that should be ignored by assistive technology
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F39>

  *

    F65: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to omitting the alt
    attribute or text alternative on img elements, area elements, and
    input elements of type "image"
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F65>

  *

    F67: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to providing
    long descriptions for non-text content that does not serve the same
    purpose or does not present the same information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F67>

  *

    F71: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to using text
    look-alikes to represent text without providing a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F71>

  *

    F72: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 due to using ASCII art
    without providing a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F72>


      Key Terms

CAPTCHA

    initialism for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell
    Computers and Humans Apart"

    /Note 1: /CAPTCHA tests often involve asking the user to type in
    text that is displayed in an obscured image or audio file.

    /Note 2: /A Turing test is any system of tests designed to
    differentiate a human from a computer. It is named after famed
    computer scientist Alan Turing. The term was coined by researchers
    at Carnegie Mellon University. [CAPTCHA] <#CAPTCHA>

assistive technology (as used in this document)

    hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>, or
    along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet
    the requirements of users with disabilities that go beyond those
    offered by mainstream user agents

    /Note 1: / functionality provided by assistive technology includes
    alternative presentations (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified
    content), alternative input methods (e.g., voice), additional
    navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
    (e.g., to make tables more accessible).

    /Note 2: /Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages
    with mainstream user agents by using and monitoring APIs.

    /Note 3: /The distinction between mainstream user agents and
    assistive technologies is not absolute. Many mainstream user agents
    provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities. The
    basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and
    diverse audiences that usually include people with and without
    disabilities. Assistive technologies target narrowly defined
    populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
    provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate
    to the needs of its target users. The mainstream user agent may
    provide important functionality to assistive technologies like
    retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing markup into
    identifiable bundles.

    /Example: /Assistive technologies that are important in the context
    of this document include the following:

      *

        screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which
        are used by people with visual, perceptual and physical print
        disabilities to change text font, size, spacing, color,
        synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual
        readability of rendered text and images;

      *

        screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read
        textual information through synthesized speech or braille;

      *

        text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with
        cognitive, language, and learning disabilities to convert text
        into synthetic speech;

      *

        speech recognition software, which may be used by people who
        have some physical disabilities;

      *

        alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain
        physical disabilities to simulate the keyboard (including
        alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single switches,
        sip/puff and other special input devices.);

      *

        alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with
        certain physical disabilities to simulate mouse pointing and
        button activations.

name

    text by which software can identify a component within Web content
    to the user

    /Note 1: /The name may be hidden and only exposed by assistive
    technology, whereas a label
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#labeldef> is
    presented to all users. In many (but not all) cases, the label and
    the name are the same.

    /Note 2: /This is unrelated to the name attribute in HTML.

non-text content

    any content that is not a sequence of characters that can be
    programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    or where the sequence is not expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

    /Note: /This includes ASCII Art
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#asciiartdef> (which
    is a pattern of characters), emoticons, leetspeak (which uses
    character substitution), and images representing text

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

specific sensory experience

    a sensory experience that is not purely decorative and does not
    primarily convey important information or perform a function

    /Example: / Examples include a performance of a flute solo, works of
    visual art etc.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

text alternative

    Text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that
    is programmatically associated with non-text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#non-text-contentdef>
    or referred to from text that is programmatically associated with
    non-text content. Programmatically associated text is text whose
    location can be programmatically determined from the non-text content.

    /Example: /An image of a chart is described in text in the paragraph
    after the chart. The short text alternative for the chart indicates
    that a description follows.

    /Note: /Refer to Understanding Text Alternatives
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-text-alternatives-head>
    for more information.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Time-based Media*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.2

    *Guideline 1.2: *Provide alternatives for time-based media.


      Intent of Guideline 1.2

The purpose of this guideline is to provide access to time-based and
synchronized media.This includes media that is:

  *

    audio-only

  *

    video-only

  *

    audio-video

  *

    audio and/or video combined with interaction

To make it easy for authors to quickly determine which success criteria
apply to their content, the type of media each success criterion applies
to is included in its short name.

For *audio-only* or *video-only* media, you only need to apply the
success criteria that say "*audio-only*" or "*video-only*" in their
short name. If your media is not *audio-only* or *video-only*, then all
the rest of the success criteria apply.

Media can also be *live* or *prerecorded*. Each of the success criterion
short names clearly tells you if the success criterion applies to *live*
or *prerecorded* media.

*Synchronized media* is defined in the glossary as:

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

Note that an audio file accompanied by interaction is covered here, as
is a video-only file that involves interaction. These are covered
because interaction must take place at a particular time. Having a text
transcript that said, "for more information, click now," would not be
very helpful since the reader would have no idea when the audio said,
"now." As a result, synchronized captions would be needed.

Sometimes, there is so much dialogue that audio description cannot fit
into existing pauses in the dialogue. The option at Level A to provide
an alternative for time-based media instead of audio description for
synchronized media would allow access to all of the information in the
synchronized media. This option also allows access to the visual
information in non-visual form when audio description is not provided
for some other reason.

For synchronized media that includes interaction, interactive elements
(for example links) could be embedded in the alternative for time-based
media.

This guideline also includes (at Level AAA) sign language interpretation
for synchronized media as well as an approach called extended audio
description. In extended audio description, the video is frozen
periodically to allow more audio description to take place than is
possible in the existing pauses in the dialogue. This is a case where
higher-level Success Criteria build upon the requirements of lower-level
Success Criterion with the intention of having cumulative, progressively
stronger, requirements.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 1.2 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  * All advisory techniques for this guideline relate to specific
    success criteria.


    *Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.1

    *1.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-av-only-alt>
    Audio-only and Video-only (Prerecorded):* For prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audio-onlydef> and
    prerecorded video-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#video-onlydef>
    media, the following are true, except when the audio or video is a
    media alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    and is clearly labeled as such: (Level A)

      *

        *Prerecorded Audio-only: *An alternative for time-based media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
        is provided that presents equivalent information for prerecorded
        audio-only content.

      *

        *Prerecorded Video-only: *Either an alternative for time-based
        media or an audio track is provided that presents equivalent
        information for prerecorded video-only content.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by
prerecorded audio-only and prerecorded video-only content available to
all users. Alternatives for time-based media that are text based make
information accessible because text can be rendered through any sensory
modality (for example, visual, auditory or tactile) to match the needs
of the user. In the future, text could also be translated into symbols,
sign language or simpler forms of the language (future).

An example of pre-recorded video with no audio information or user
interaction is a silent movie. The purpose of the transcript is to
provide an equivalent to what is presented visually. For prerecorded
video content, authors have the option to provide an audio track. The
purpose of the audio alternative is to be an equivalent to the video.
This makes it possible for users with and without vision impairment to
review content simultaneously. The approach can also make it easier for
those with cognitive, language and learning disabilities to understand
the content because it would provide parallel presentation.

/Note: /A text equivalent is not required for audio that is provided as
an equivalent for video with no audio information. For example, it is
not required to caption video description that is provided as an
alternative to a silent movie.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.9 Audio-only (Live)
<#media-equiv-live-audio-only>/


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people who have difficulty perceiving
    visual content. Assistive technology can read text alternatives
    aloud, present them visually, or convert them to braille.

  *

    Alternatives for timed-based media that are text based may help some
    people who have difficulty understanding the meaning of prerecorded
    video content.

  *

    People who are deaf, are hard of hearing, or who are having trouble
    understanding audio information for any reason can read the text
    presentation. Research is ongoing regarding automatic translation of
    text into sign language.

  *

    People who are deaf-blind can read the text in braille.

  *

    Additionally, text supports the ability to search for non-text
    content and to repurpose content in a variety of ways.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.1

  *

    *An audio recording of a speech*

    The link to an audio clip says, "Chairman's speech to the assembly."
    A link to a text transcript is provided immediately after the link
    to the audio clip.

  *

    *An audio recording of a press conference*

    A Web page includes a link to an audio recording of a press
    conference that identifies the audio recording. The page also links
    to a text transcript of the press conference. The transcript
    includes a verbatim record of everything the speakers say. It
    identifies who is speaking as well as noting other significant
    sounds that are part of the recording, such as applause, laughter,
    questions from the audience, and so on.

  *

    *An animation that illustrates how a car engine works*

    An animation shows how a car engine works. There is no audio and the
    animation is part of a tutorial that describes how an engine works.
    Since the text of the tutorial already provides a full explanation,
    the media is an alternative for text and the text alternative
    includes only a brief description of the animation and refers to the
    tutorial text for more information.

  *

    *A video-only file with an audio track*

    A silent movie includes an audio track which includes a description
    of the action in the video.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Overcoming the challenge of podcast transcription
    <http://www.rnib.org.uk/travel-downloads-podcasts-and-apps?List=be9c76d3-7ad0-4e03-a1a0-e6f6953b8178&ID=16>


  *

    uiAccess list of transcription services
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html>

  *

    Transcripts on the Web: Getting people to your podcasts and videos
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcripts_on_the_web.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.1 - Audio-only
      and Video-only (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the content is prerecorded audio-only:

 1.

    G158: Providing an alternative for time-based media for audio-only
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G158>

 2.

    SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
    Playing in a MediaElement
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL17>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: If the content is prerecorded video-only:

 1.

    G159: Providing an alternative for time-based media for video-only
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G159>

 2.

    G166: Providing audio that describes the important video content and
    describing it as such
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G166>

 3.

    SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
    Playing in a MediaElement
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL17>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H96: Using the track element to provide audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H96> (HTML)

  *

    Providing a transcript of a live audio only presentation after the
    fact (future link)

  *

    Linking to textual information that provides comparable information
    (e.g., for a traffic Webcam, a municipality could provide a link to
    the text traffic report.) (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F30: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to using text
    alternatives that are not alternatives (e.g., filenames or
    placeholder text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F30>

  *

    F67: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.2.1 due to providing
    long descriptions for non-text content that does not serve the same
    purpose or does not present the same information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F67>


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

audio-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> (no video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

media alternative for text

    media that presents no more information than is already presented in
    text (directly or via text alternatives)

    /Note: /A media alternative for text is provided for those who
    benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives
    for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
    video), or audio-video.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

video-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> (no audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Captions (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.2

    *1.2.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-captions> Captions
    (Prerecorded):* Captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef> are
    provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>,
    except when the media is a media alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    and is clearly labeled as such. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who are deaf or
hard of hearing to watch synchronized media presentations. Captions
provide the part of the content available via the audio track. Captions
not only include dialogue, but identify who is speaking and include
non-speech information conveyed through sound, including meaningful
sound effects.

It is acknowledged that at the present time there may be difficulty in
creating captions for time-sensitive material and this may result in the
author being faced with the choice of delaying the information until
captions are available, or publishing time-sensitive content that is
inaccessible to the deaf, at least for the interval until captions are
available. Over time, the tools for captioning as well as building the
captioning into the delivery process can shorten or eliminate such delays.

Captions are not needed when the synchronized media is, itself, an
alternate presentation of information that is also presented via text on
the Web page. For example, if information on a page is accompanied by a
synchronized media presentation that presents no more information than
is already presented in text, but is easier for people with cognitive,
language, or learning disabilities to understand, then it would not need
to be captioned since the information is already presented on the page
in text or in text alternatives (e.g., for images).

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.4 Captions (Live)
<#media-equiv-real-time-captions>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.2

  *

    People who are deaf or have a hearing loss can access the auditory
    information in the synchronized media content through captions.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.2

  *

    *A captioned tutorial*

    A video clip shows how to tie a knot. The captions read,

    "(music)

    Using rope to tie knots was an important skill

    for the likes of sailors, soldiers and woodsmen.."

    From Sample Transcript Formatting by Whit Anderson.

  *

    A complex legal document contains synchronized media clips for
    different paragraphs that show a person speaking the contents of the
    paragraph. Each clip is associated with its corresponding paragraph.
    No captions are provided for the synchronized media.

  *

    An instruction manual containing a description of a part and its
    necessary orientation is accompanied by a synchronized media clip
    showing the part in its correct orientation. No captions are
    provided for the synchronized media clip.

  *

    An orchestra provides captions for videos of performances. In
    addition to capturing dialog and lyrics verbatim, captions identify
    non-vocal music by title, movement, composer, and any information
    that will help the user comprehend the nature of the audio. For
    instance captions read,

    "[Orchestral Suite No. 3.2 in D major, BWV 1068, Air]

    [Johann Sebastian Bach, Composer]

    ♪ Calm melody with a slow tempo ♪"

    /Note: /Style guides for captions may differ among different languages.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.


        Guides to Captioning

  *

    Captioning Key: Guidelines and Preferred Techniques
    <http://www.captioningkey.org/>

  *

    Best Practices in Online Captioning
    <http://joeclark.org/access/captioning/bpoc/>


        SMIL Resources

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>



        Other Captioning Resources

  *

    National Center for Accessible Media <http://ncam.wgbh.org/>

  *

    WebAIM: Captioning Resource List
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/captions/>


        Captioning Tools

  *

    Media Access Generator (MAGpie)
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/tools-guidelines>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.2 - Captions
      (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G93: Providing open (always visible) captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G93>

 2.

    G87: Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G87> using any
    readily available media format that has a video player that supports
    closed captioning

 3.

    G87: Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G87> using any
    of the technology-specific techniques below

      *

        SM11: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM11> (SMIL)

      *

        SM12: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM12> (SMIL)

      *

        H95: Using the track element to provide captions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H95> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH9: Applying captions to prerecorded synchronized media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH9>
        (Flash)

      *

        SL16: Providing Script-Embedded Text Captions for MediaElement
        Content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL16>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL28: Using Separate Text-Format Text Captions for MediaElement
        Content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL28>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a note saying "No sound is used in this clip" for
    video-only clips (future link)

  *

    Using SMIL 1.0 to provide captions for all languages for which there
    are audio tracks (future link)

  *

    Using SMIL 2.0 to provide captions for all languages for which there
    are audio tracks (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F8: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 due to captions omitting some
    dialogue or important sound effects
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F8>

  *

    F75: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 by providing synchronized
    media without captions when the synchronized media presents more
    information than is presented on the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F75>

  *

    F74: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 and 1.2.8 due to not
    labeling a synchronized media alternative to text as an alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F74>


      Key Terms

audio

    the technology of sound reproduction

    /Note: /Audio can be created synthetically (including speech
    synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

captions

    synchronized visual and/or text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> for
    both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand
    the media content

    /Note 1: /Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except
    captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also
    equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand
    the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
    speaker identification and location.

    /Note 2: /Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and
    off with some players.

    /Note 3: /Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off.
    For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    embedded in video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>.

    /Note 4: /Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant
    information in the video.

    /Note 5: /In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

    /Note 6: / Audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> can
    be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of
    information that is already presented visually.

media alternative for text

    media that presents no more information than is already presented in
    text (directly or via text alternatives)

    /Note: /A media alternative for text is provided for those who
    benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives
    for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
    video), or audio-video.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.3

    *1.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-audio-desc>
    Audio Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded):* An
    alternative for time-based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
    or audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> of the
    prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    content is provided for synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>,
    except when the media is a media alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    and is clearly labeled as such. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide people who are blind
or visually impaired access to the visual information in a synchronized
media presentation. This Success Criterion describes two approaches,
either of which can be used.

One approach is to provide audio description of the video content. The
audio description augments the audio portion of the presentation with
the information needed when the video portion is not available. During
existing pauses in dialogue, audio description provides information
about actions, characters, scene changes, and on-screen text that are
important and are not described or spoken in the main sound track.

The second approach involves providing all of the information in the
synchronized media (both visual and auditory) in text form. An
alternative for time-based media provides a running description of all
that is going on in the synchronized media content. The alternative for
time-based media reads something like a screenplay or book. Unlike audio
description, the description of the video portion is not constrained to
just the pauses in the existing dialogue. Full descriptions are provided
of all visual information, including visual context, actions and
expressions of actors, and any other visual material. In addition,
non-speech sounds (laughter, off-screen voices, etc.) are described, and
transcripts of all dialogue are included. The sequence of description
and dialogue transcripts are the same as the sequence in the
synchronized media itself. As a result, the alternative for time-based
media can provide a much more complete representation of the
synchronized media content than audio description alone.

If there is any interaction as part of the synchronized media
presentation (e.g., "press now to answer the question") then the
alternative for time-based media would provide hyperlinks or whatever is
needed to provide the same functionality.

/Note 1: / For 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.7, if all of the information in the
video track is already provided in the audio track, no audio description
is necessary.

/Note 2: / 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.8 overlap somewhat with each other.
This is to give the author some choice at the minimum conformance level,
and to provide additional requirements at higher levels. At Level A in
Success Criterion 1.2.3, authors do have the choice of providing either
an audio description or a full text alternative. If they wish to conform
at Level AA, under Success Criterion 1.2.5 authors must provide an audio
description - a requirement already met if they chose that alternative
for 1.2.3, otherwise an additional requirement. At Level AAA under
Success Criterion 1.2.8 they must provide an extended text description.
This is an additional requirement if both 1.2.3 and 1.2.5 were met by
providing an audio description only. If 1.2.3 was met, however, by
providing a text description, and the 1.2.5 requirement for an audio
description was met, then 1.2.8 does not add new requirements.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.5 Audio Description
(Prerecorded) <#media-equiv-audio-desc-only>/, /Understanding Success
Criterion 1.2.7 Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)
<#media-equiv-extended-ad>/ and /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.8
Media Alternative (Prerecorded) <#media-equiv-text-doc>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.3

  *

    This Success Criterion may help some people who have difficulty
    watching video or other synchronized media content, including people
    who have difficulty perceiving or understanding moving images.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.3

  *

    *A movie with audio description.*

    *Describer: *A title, "Teaching Evolution Case Studies. Bonnie
    Chen." A teacher shows photographs of birds with long, thin beaks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"These photos were all taken at the Everglades."

    *Describer: *The teacher hands each student two flat, thin wooden
    sticks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"Today you will pretend to be a species of wading
    bird that has a beak like this."

    *Describer: *The teacher holds two of the sticks to her mouth making
    the shape of a beak.

    Transcript of audio based on the first few minutes of "Teaching
    Evolution Case Studies, Bonnie Chen
    <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/evolution/educators/teachstuds/tvideos.html>"
    (copyright WGBH and Clear Blue Sky Productions, Inc.)

  *

    *An alternative for time-based media for a training video*

    A company purchases a Training video for use by its employees and
    puts it on the companies intranet. The video involves explaining use
    of a new technology and has a person talking and showing things at
    the same time. Since there is no place to insert audio description
    of the visual demonstrations during gaps in dialogue, the company
    provides an alternative for time-based media that all employees,
    including those who cannot see the demonstrations, can use to better
    understand what is being presented.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    Standard Techniques in Audio Description
    <http://joeclark.org/access/description/ad-principles.html>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.3 - Audio
      Description or Media Alternative (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G69: Providing an alternative for time based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G69> using one
    of the following techniques

      *

        G58: Placing a link to the alternative for time-based media
        immediately next to the non-text content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G58>

      *

        SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
        Playing in a MediaElement
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL17>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    Linking to the alternative for time-based media using one of the
    following techniques

      *

        H53: Using the body of the object element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H53> (HTML)

 3.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G78>

 4.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G78> *AND*
    SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL1>
    (Silverlight)

 5.

    G173: Providing a version of a movie with audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G173> using
    one of the following:

      *

        SM6: Providing audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM6> (SMIL)

      *

        SM7: Providing audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM7> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL1>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video

 6.

    G8: Providing a movie with extended audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G8> using one
    of the following:

      *

        SM1: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM1> (SMIL)

      *

        SM2: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM2> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL1>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video

 7.

    G203: Using a static text alternative to describe a talking head
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G203>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H96: Using the track element to provide audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H96> (HTML)

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 1.0
    (future link)

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 2.0
    (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

audio description

    narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual
    details that cannot be understood from the main soundtrack alone

    /Note 1: / Audio description of video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> provides
    information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen
    text, and other visual content.

    /Note 2: /In standard audio description, narration is added during
    existing pauses in dialogue. (See also extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef>.)

    /Note 3: /Where all of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    information is already provided in existing audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>, no
    additional audio description is necessary.

    /Note 4: /Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."

media alternative for text

    media that presents no more information than is already presented in
    text (directly or via text alternatives)

    /Note: /A media alternative for text is provided for those who
    benefit from alternate representations of text. Media alternatives
    for text may be audio-only, video-only (including sign-language
    video), or audio-video.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video

    the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

    /Note: /Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or
    both.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Captions (Live)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.4

    *1.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-real-time-captions>
    Captions (Live):* Captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef> are
    provided for all live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef> audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> content in
    synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who are deaf or
hard of hearing to watch */real-time/* presentations. Captions provide
the part of the content available via the audio track. Captions not only
include dialogue, but also identify who is speaking and notate sound
effects and other significant audio.

This success criterion was intended to apply to broadcast of
synchronized media and is not intended to require that two-way
multimedia calls between two or more individuals through web apps must
be captioned regardless of the needs of users. Responsibility for
providing captions would fall to the content providers (the callers) or
the “host” caller, and not the application.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.4

  *

    People who are deaf or have a hearing loss can access the auditory
    information in the synchronized media content through captions.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.4

  *

    *A Web cast*

    A news organization provides a live, captioned Web cast.

  *

    *A music Web cast*

    An orchestra provides Communication Access Realtime Translation
    (CART) captioning of each real-time Web performance. The CART
    service captures lyrics and dialog as well as identifies non-vocal
    music by title, movement, composer, and any information that will
    help the user comprehend the nature of the audio.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    See /Understanding Success Criterion 1.2.2 Captions (Prerecorded)
    <#media-equiv-captions>/.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.4 - Captions (Live)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G9> *AND* G93:
    Providing open (always visible) captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G93>

 2.

    G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G9> *AND* G87:
    Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G87> using any
    readily available media format that has a video player that supports
    closed captioning

 3.

    G9: Creating captions for live synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G9> *AND* G87:
    Providing closed captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G87> using one
    of the following techniques:

      *

        SM11: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM11> (SMIL)

      *

        SM12: Providing captions through synchronized text streams in
        SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM12> (SMIL)

/Note: /Captions may be generated using real-time text translation service.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio

    the technology of sound reproduction

    /Note: /Audio can be created synthetically (including speech
    synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

captions

    synchronized visual and/or text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> for
    both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand
    the media content

    /Note 1: /Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except
    captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also
    equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand
    the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
    speaker identification and location.

    /Note 2: /Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and
    off with some players.

    /Note 3: /Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off.
    For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    embedded in video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>.

    /Note 4: /Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant
    information in the video.

    /Note 5: /In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

    /Note 6: / Audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> can
    be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of
    information that is already presented visually.

live

    information captured from a real-world event and transmitted to the
    receiver with no more than a broadcast delay

    /Note 1: /A broadcast delay is a short (usually automated) delay,
    for example used in order to give the broadcaster time to queue or
    censor the audio (or video) feed, but not sufficient to allow
    significant editing.

    /Note 2: /If information is completely computer generated, it is not
    live.

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio Description (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.5

    *1.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-audio-desc-only>
    Audio Description (Prerecorded):* Audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> is
    provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide people who are blind
or visually impaired access to the visual information in a synchronized
media presentation. The audio description augments the audio portion of
the presentation with the information needed when the video portion is
not available. During existing pauses in dialogue, audio description
provides information about actions, characters, scene changes, and
on-screen text that are important and are not described or spoken in the
main sound track.

/Note 1: / For 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.7, if all of the information in the
video track is already provided in the audio track, no audio description
is necessary.

/Note 2: / 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.8 overlap somewhat with each other.
This is to give the author some choice at the minimum conformance level,
and to provide additional requirements at higher levels. At Level A in
Success Criterion 1.2.3, authors do have the choice of providing either
an audio description or a full text alternative. If they wish to conform
at Level AA, under Success Criterion 1.2.5 authors must provide an audio
description - a requirement already met if they chose that alternative
for 1.2.3, otherwise an additional requirement. At Level AAA under
Success Criterion 1.2.8 they must provide an extended text description.
This is an additional requirement if both 1.2.3 and 1.2.5 were met by
providing an audio description only. If 1.2.3 was met, however, by
providing a text description, and the 1.2.5 requirement for an audio
description was met, then 1.2.8 does not add new requirements.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.5

  *

    People who are blind or have low vision as well as those with
    cognitive limitations who have difficulty interpreting visually what
    is happening benefit from audio description of visual information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.5

  *

    *A movie with audio description.*

    *Describer: *A title, "Teaching Evolution Case Studies. Bonnie
    Chen." A teacher shows photographs of birds with long, thin beaks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"These photos were all taken at the Everglades."

    *Describer: *The teacher hands each student two flat, thin wooden
    sticks.

    *Bonnie Chen: *"Today you will pretend to be a species of wading
    bird that has a beak like this."

    *Describer: *The teacher holds two of the sticks to her mouth making
    the shape of a beak.

    Transcript of audio based on the first few minutes of "Teaching
    Evolution Case Studies, Bonnie Chen
    <http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/evolution/educators/teachstuds/tvideos.html>"
    (copyright WGBH and Clear Blue Sky Productions, Inc.)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    Standard Techniques in Audio Description
    <http://joeclark.org/access/description/ad-principles.html>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.5 - Audio
      Description (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G78>

 2.

    G78: Providing a second, user-selectable, audio track that includes
    audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G78> *AND*
    SL1: Accessing Alternate Audio Tracks in Silverlight Media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL1>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    G173: Providing a version of a movie with audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G173> using
    one of the following:

      *

        SM6: Providing audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM6> (SMIL)

      *

        SM7: Providing audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM7> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video

 4.

    G8: Providing a movie with extended audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G8> using one
    of the following:

      *

        SM1: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM1> (SMIL)

      *

        SM2: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM2> (SMIL)

      *

        FLASH26: Applying audio descriptions to Flash video
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH26>
        (Flash)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video

 5.

    G203: Using a static text alternative to describe a talking head
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G203>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H96: Using the track element to provide audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H96> (HTML)

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 1.0
    (future link)

  *

    Providing audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 2.0
    (future link)

  *

    Providing audio description for live synchronized media (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio description

    narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual
    details that cannot be understood from the main soundtrack alone

    /Note 1: / Audio description of video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> provides
    information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen
    text, and other visual content.

    /Note 2: /In standard audio description, narration is added during
    existing pauses in dialogue. (See also extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef>.)

    /Note 3: /Where all of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    information is already provided in existing audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>, no
    additional audio description is necessary.

    /Note 4: /Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video

    the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

    /Note: /Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or
    both.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Sign Language (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.6

    *1.2.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-sign>
    Sign Language (Prerecorded):* Sign language interpretation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languageinterpdef>
    is provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who are deaf or
hard of hearing and who are fluent in a sign language to understand the
content of the audio track of synchronized media presentations. Written
text, such as that found in captions, is often a second language.
Because sign language provides the ability to provide intonation,
emotion and other audio information that is reflected in sign language
interpretation, but not in captions, sign language interpretation
provides richer and more equivalent access to synchronized media. People
who communicate extensively in sign language are also faster in sign
language and synchronized media is a time-based presentation.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.6

  *

    People whose human language is a sign language sometimes have
    limited reading ability. These individuals may not be able to read
    and comprehend the captions and thus require a sign language
    interpretation to gain access to the synchronized media content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.6

  *

    *Example 1.* A corporation is making an important announcement to
    all of its employees. The meeting will be held in the main
    headquarters and streamed to the Web. A sign language interpreter is
    provided at the meeting location. The live video includes a full
    view of the sign language interpreter as well as the person presenting.

  *

    *Example 2.* The same announcement described in example 1 is also
    Webcast to remote employees. Since there is only one display
    available for this, the sign language interpreter is shown in the
    corner of the display.

  *

    *Example 3.* A university is providing an on-line version of a
    particular lecture by creating a synchronized media presentation of
    the professor delivering the lecture. The presentation includes
    video of the professor speaking and demonstrating a science
    experiment. A sign language interpretation of the lecture is created
    and presented on the Web with the synchronized media version.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL 2.0)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    National Institute on Deafness and other Communication Disorders
    <https://www.nidcd.nih.gov/health/american-sign-language>:
    Information on American Sign Language

  *

    Techniques for filming sign language interpreters
    <http://www.sign-lang.uni-hamburg.de/signingbooks/sbrc/grid/d71/guide12.htm>


  *

    Royal National Institute for Deaf People (RNID)
    <http://www.actiononhearingloss.org.uk/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.6 - Sign
      Language (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G54: Including a sign language interpreter in the video stream
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G54>

 2.

    G81: Providing a synchronized video of the sign language interpreter
    that can be displayed in a different viewport or overlaid on the
    image by the player
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G81> using one
    of the following techniques

      *

        SM13: Providing sign language interpretation through
        synchronized video streams in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM13> (SMIL)

      *

        SM14: Providing sign language interpretation through
        synchronized video streams in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM14> (SMIL)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          Metadata Techniques

  *

    Using metadata to associate sign language alternatives of a video to
    enable choice of sign language (future link)

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to several
        English sign language translations (ASL, SASL, BSL, Auslan, ISL,
        NZSL) of a Web page.


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio

    the technology of sound reproduction

    /Note: /Audio can be created synthetically (including speech
    synthesis), recorded from real world sounds, or both.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

sign language interpretation

    translation of one language, generally a spoken language, into a
    sign language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languagedef>

    /Note: / True sign languages are independent languages that are
    unrelated to the spoken language(s) of the same country or region.

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.7

    *1.2.7
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-extended-ad>
    Extended Audio Description (Prerecorded):* Where pauses in
    foreground audio are insufficient to allow audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> to
    convey the sense of the video, extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef> is
    provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    content in synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide people who are blind
or visually impaired access to a synchronized media presentation beyond
that which can be provided by standard audio description. This is done
by periodically freezing the synchronized media presentation and playing
additional audio description. The synchronized media presentation is
then resumed.

Because it disrupts viewing for those who do not need the additional
description, techniques that allow you to turn the feature on and off
are often provided. Alternately, versions with and without the
additional description can be provided.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.7

  *

    People who are blind, people with low vision who cannot see the
    screen, as well as those with cognitive limitations who have
    difficulty interpreting visually what is happening, often use audio
    description of the visual information. However, if there is too much
    dialogue the audio description is insufficient. Extended audio
    description can provide the additional information needed to
    understand the video.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.7

  *

    /Example 1. Video of a lecture./ A physics professor is giving a
    lecture. He makes freehand sketches on the whiteboard, speaking
    rapidly as he draws. As soon as he has finished discussing one
    problem, he erases the drawing and makes another sketch while
    continuing to speak and gesture with his other hand. The video is
    paused between problems, and extended audio description of the
    professor's drawings and gestures is provided; the video is then
    resumed.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 1.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/REC-smil/>

  *

    Synchronized Multimedia Integration Language (SMIL) 2.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL/>

  *

    Accessibility Features of SMIL <http://www.w3.org/TR/SMIL-access/>

  *

    NCAM Rich Media Accessibility, Accessible SMIL Templates
    <http://ncam.wgbh.org/invent_build/web_multimedia/accessible-digital-media-guide/guideline-h-multimedia#techH12>


  *

    Standard Techniques in Audio Description
    <http://joeclark.org/access/description/ad-principles.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.7 - Extended
      Audio Description (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G8: Providing a movie with extended audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G8> using one
    of the following:

      *

        SM1: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 1.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM1> (SMIL)

      *

        SM2: Adding extended audio description in SMIL 2.0
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SM2> (SMIL)

      *

        Using any player that supports audio and video


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.7

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H96: Using the track element to provide audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H96> (HTML)

  *

    Adding extended audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 1.0
    (future link)

  *

    Adding extended audio description in multiple languages in SMIL 2.0
    (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.7

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.7 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

audio description

    narration added to the soundtrack to describe important visual
    details that cannot be understood from the main soundtrack alone

    /Note 1: / Audio description of video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> provides
    information about actions, characters, scene changes, on-screen
    text, and other visual content.

    /Note 2: /In standard audio description, narration is added during
    existing pauses in dialogue. (See also extended audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#extended-addef>.)

    /Note 3: /Where all of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    information is already provided in existing audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef>, no
    additional audio description is necessary.

    /Note 4: /Also called "video description" and "descriptive narration."

extended audio description

    audio description that is added to an audiovisual presentation by
    pausing the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> so that
    there is time to add additional description

    /Note: /This technique is only used when the sense of the video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> would be
    lost without the additional audio description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> and
    the pauses between dialogue/narration are too short.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video

    the technology of moving or sequenced pictures or images

    /Note: /Video can be made up of animated or photographic images, or
    both.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Media Alternative (Prerecorded)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.8

    *1.2.8
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-text-doc> Media
    Alternative (Prerecorded):* An alternative for time-based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
    is provided for all prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef> and
    for all prerecorded video-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#video-onlydef>
    media. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make audio visual material
available to individuals whose vision is too poor to reliably read
captions <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef>
and whose hearing is too poor to reliably hear dialogue and audio
description
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef>. This is
done by providing an alternative for time-based media.

This approach involves providing all of the information in the
synchronized media (both visual and auditory) in text form. An
alternative for time-based media provides a running description of all
that is going on in the synchronized media content. The alternative for
time-based media reads something like a book. Unlike audio description,
the description of the video portion is not constrained to just the
pauses in the existing dialogue. Full descriptions are provided of all
visual information, including visual context, actions and expressions of
actors, and any other visual material. In addition, non-speech sounds
(laughter, off-screen voices, etc.) are described, and transcripts of
all dialogue are included. The sequence of descriptions and dialogue
transcripts is the same as the sequence in the synchronized media
itself. As a result, the alternative for time-based media can provide a
much more complete representation of the synchronized media content than
audio description alone.

If there is any interaction as part of the synchronized media
presentation (e.g., "press now to answer the question") then the
alternative for time-based media would provide hyperlinks or whatever is
needed to provide parallel functionality.

Individuals whose vision is too poor to reliably read captions and whose
hearing is too poor to reliably hear dialogue can access the alternative
for time-based media by using a refreshable braille display.

/Note 1: / For 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.7, if all of the information in the
video track is already provided in the audio track, no audio description
is necessary.

/Note 2: / 1.2.3, 1.2.5, and 1.2.8 overlap somewhat with each other.
This is to give the author some choice at the minimum conformance level,
and to provide additional requirements at higher levels. At Level A in
Success Criterion 1.2.3, authors do have the choice of providing either
an audio description or a full text alternative. If they wish to conform
at Level AA, under Success Criterion 1.2.5 authors must provide an audio
description - a requirement already met if they chose that alternative
for 1.2.3, otherwise an additional requirement. At Level AAA under
Success Criterion 1.2.8 they must provide an extended text description.
This is an additional requirement if both 1.2.3 and 1.2.5 were met by
providing an audio description only. If 1.2.3 was met, however, by
providing a text description, and the 1.2.5 requirement for an audio
description was met, then 1.2.8 does not add new requirements.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.2.8

  *

    People who cannot see well or at all and who also cannot hear well
    or at all can get access to information in audio-visual presentations.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.8

  *

    *Example 1. alternative for time-based media for a training video*

    A community center purchases a Training video for use by its clients
    and puts it on the center's intranet. The video involves explaining
    use of a new technology and has a person talking and showing things
    at the same time. The community center provides an alternative for
    time-based media that all clients, including those who can neither
    see the demonstrations nor hear the explanations in the synchronized
    media, can use to better understand what is being presented.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    uiAccess list of transcription services
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html>

  *

    Transcripts on the Web: Getting people to your podcasts and videos
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcripts_on_the_web.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.8 - Media
      Alternative (Prerecorded)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the content is prerecorded synchronized media:

 1.

    G69: Providing an alternative for time based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G69> using one
    of the following techniques

      *

        G58: Placing a link to the alternative for time-based media
        immediately next to the non-text content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G58>

      *

        SL17: Providing Static Alternative Content for Silverlight Media
        Playing in a MediaElement
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL17>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    Linking to the alternative for time-based media using one of the
    following techniques

      *

        H53: Using the body of the object element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H53> (HTML)


          Situation B: If the content is prerecorded video-only:

 1.

    G159: Providing an alternative for time-based media for video-only
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G159>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.8

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H46: Using noembed with embed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H46> (HTML)

  *

    Providing a corrected script (future link)

  *

    Adding detail to audio description (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.8

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.8 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F74: Failure of Success Criterion 1.2.2 and 1.2.8 due to not
    labeling a synchronized media alternative to text as an alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F74>


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

video-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> (no audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio-only (Live)*:
    Understanding SC 1.2.9

    *1.2.9
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#media-equiv-live-audio-only>
    Audio-only (Live):* An alternative for time-based media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#alt-time-based-mediadef>
    that presents equivalent information for live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef> audio-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audio-onlydef>
    content is provided. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make information conveyed by
live audio, such as video conferencing, live speeches and radio
Webcasts, accessible through the use of a text alternative. A live text
caption service will enable live audio to be accessible to people who
are deaf or hard of hearing, or who cannot otherwise hear the audio.
Such services use a trained human operator who listens in to what is
being said and uses a special keyboard to enter the text with only a
small delay. They are able to capture a live event with a high degree of
fidelity, and also to insert notes on any non spoken audio which is
essential to understanding the event. A transcript is sometimes a
possibility if the live audio is following a set script; but a live
caption service is preferred because it plays out at the same pace as
the audio itself, and can adapt to any deviations from the script that
might occur.

Using untrained operators, or providing a transcript which differs
markedly from what actually happens would not be considered meeting this
Success Criterion.

This success criterion was intended to apply to broadcast of audio and
is not intended to require that two-way audio calls between two or more
individuals through web apps must be captioned regardless of the needs
of users. Responsibility for providing captions would fall to the
content providers (the callers) or the “host” caller, and not the
application.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.2.9

  *

    A public relations firm uses Web based caption services to cover
    live events; the output from the service is incorporated in a sub
    frame of the Web page which includes the streaming audio control.

  *

    A live radio play of a fringe theatre group is being broadcast to
    the Web. As the actors stick largely to a set script, and the budget
    for the program is small, the producers provide a link (with the
    playwright's permission) to the script of the play.

  *

    A streaming audio server uses a media format which can also
    accommodate text and graphics, such as Flash or Silverlight. A
    stenographer is used to create live captions at an event, and these
    are mixed on the fly to produce live captions in the media stream
    which can be viewed by the media player.

  *

    A CEO is to give a press release by telephone to the media in
    response to a breaking news story, the audio is being recorded and
    streamed over the internet, but due to time constraints a Web
    captioning service cannot be set up in time. As the press release is
    a set statement which the CEO will be reading out, the company
    simultaneously provides the transcript of the release.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Captioning and Subtitling International
    <http://www.captioningandsubtitling.com.au/work/internet/>

  *

    WebAIM Real time captioning resource
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/captions/realtime>

  *

    uiAccess list of transcription services
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcript_services.html>

  *

    Transcripts on the Web: Getting people to your podcasts and videos
    <http://www.uiaccess.com/transcripts/transcripts_on_the_web.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.2.9 - Audio-only
      (Live)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G151: Providing a link to a text transcript of a prepared statement
    or script if the script is followed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G151>

 2.

    G150: Providing text based alternatives for live audio-only content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G150>

 3.

    G157: Incorporating a live audio captioning service into a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G157>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.2.9

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using metadata to associate text transcriptions with audio-only
    content (future link)

    /Example: /Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to several text
    transcripts (English, French, Dutch) of an audio file.


        Common Failures for SC 1.2.9

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.2.9 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

alternative for time-based media

    document including correctly sequenced text descriptions of
    time-based visual and auditory information and providing a means for
    achieving the outcomes of any time-based interaction

    /Note: /A screenplay used to create the synchronized media content
    would meet this definition only if it was corrected to accurately
    represent the final synchronized media after editing.

audio-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> (no video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

live

    information captured from a real-world event and transmitted to the
    receiver with no more than a broadcast delay

    /Note 1: /A broadcast delay is a short (usually automated) delay,
    for example used in order to give the broadcaster time to queue or
    censor the audio (or video) feed, but not sufficient to allow
    significant editing.

    /Note 2: /If information is completely computer generated, it is not
    live.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Adaptable*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.3

    *Guideline 1.3: *Create content that can be presented in different
    ways (for example simpler layout) without losing information or
    structure.


      Intent of Guideline 1.3

The purpose of this guideline is to ensure that all information is
available in a form that can be perceived by all users, for example,
spoken aloud, or presented in a simpler visual layout. If all of the
information is available in a form that can be determined by software,
then it can be presented to users in different ways (visually, audibly,
tactilely etc.). If information is embedded in a particular presentation
in such a way that the structure and information cannot be
programmatically determined by the assistive technology, then it cannot
be rendered in other formats as needed by the user.

The Success Criteria under this guideline all seek to ensure that
different types of information that are often encoded in presentation
are also available so that they can be presented in other modalities.

  *

    *structure:* the way the parts of a Web page are organized in
    relation to each other; and the way a collection of Web pages is
    organized

  *

    *presentation:* rendering of the content in a form that can be
    perceived by users


    *Info and Relationships*:
    Understanding SC 1.3.1

    *1.3.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-programmatic>
    Info and Relationships:* Information, structure
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#structuredef>, and
    relationships
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relationshipsdef>
    conveyed through presentation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#presentationdef> can
    be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    or are available in text. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that information and
relationships that are implied by visual or auditory formatting are
preserved when the presentation format changes. For example, the
presentation format changes when the content is read by a screen reader
or when a user style sheet is substituted for the style sheet provided
by the author.

Sighted users perceive structure and relationships through various
visual cues — headings are often in a larger, bold font separated from
paragraphs by blank lines; list items are preceded by a bullet and
perhaps indented; paragraphs are separated by a blank line; items that
share a common characteristic are organized into tabular rows and
columns; form fields may be positioned as groups that share text labels;
a different background color may be used to indicate that several items
are related to each other; words that have special status are indicated
by changing the font family and /or bolding, italicizing, or underlining
them; items that share a common characteristic are organized into a
table where the relationship of cells sharing the same row or column and
the relationship of each cell to its row and/or column header are
necessary for understanding; and so on. Having these structures and
these relationships programmatically determined or available in text
ensures that information important for comprehension will be perceivable
to all.

Auditory cues may be used as well. For example, a chime might indicate
the beginning of a new section; a change in voice pitch or speech rate
may be used to emphasize important information or to indicate quoted
text; etc.

When such relationships are perceivable to one set of users, those
relationships can be made to be perceivable to all. One method of
determining whether or not information has been properly provided to all
users is to access the information serially in different modalities.

If links to glossary items are implemented using anchor elements (or the
proper link element for the technology in use) and identified using a
different font face, a screen reader user will hear that the item is a
link when the glossary term is encountered even though they may not
receive information about the change in font face. An on-line catalog
may indicate prices using a larger font colored red. A screen reader or
person who cannot perceive red, still has the information about the
price as long as it is preceded by the currency symbol.

Some technologies do not provide a means to programmatically determine
some types of information and relationships. In that case then there
should be a text description of the information and relationships. For
instance, "all required fields are marked with an asterisk (*)". The
text description should be near the information it is describing (when
the page is linearized), such as in the parent element or in the
adjacent element.

There may also be cases where it may be a judgment call as to whether
the relationships should be programmatically determined or be presented
in text. However, when technologies support programmatic relationships,
it is strongly encouraged that information and relationships be
programmatically determined rather than described in text.

/Note: /It is not required that color values be programmatically
determined. The information conveyed by color cannot be adequately
presented simply by exposing the value. Therefore, Success Criterion
1.4.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-without-color>
addresses the specific case of color, rather than Success Criterion 1.3.1.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.3.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with different disabilities by
    allowing user agents to adapt content according to the needs of
    individual users.

  *

    Users who are blind (using a screen reader) benefit when information
    conveyed through color is also available in text (including text
    alternatives for images that use color to convey information).

  *

    Users who are deaf-blind using braille (text) refreshable displays
    may be unable to access color-dependent information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.3.1

  *

    *A form with required fields *

    A form contains several required fields. The labels for the required
    fields are displayed in red. In addition, at the end of each label
    is an asterisk character, *. The instructions for completing the
    form indicate that "all required fields are displayed in red and
    marked with an asterisk *", followed by an example.

  *

    *A form that uses color and text to indicate required fields*

    A form contains both required and optional fields. Instructions at
    the top of the form explain that required fields are labeled with
    red text and also with an icon whose text alternative says,
    "Required." Both the red text and the icon are programmatically
    associated with the appropriate form fields so that assistive
    technology users can determine the required fields.

  *

    *A bus schedule table where the headers for each cell can be
    programmatically determined*

    A bus schedule consists of a table with the bus stops listed
    vertically in the first column and the different buses listed
    horizontally across the first row. Each cell contains the time when
    the bus will be at that bus stop. The bus stop and bus cells are
    identified as headers for their corresponding row or column so that
    assistive technology can programmatically determine which bus and
    which bus stop are associated with the time in each cell.

  *

    *A form where the labels for the checkboxes can be programmatically
    determined*

    In a form, the labels for each checkbox can be programmatically
    determined by assistive technology.

  *

    *A text document*

    A simple text document is formatted with double blank lines before
    titles, asterisks to indicate list items and other standard
    formatting conventions so that its structure can be programmatically
    determined.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    WebAIM: Semantic Structure
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/>

  *

    Heading Tags <http://accessibility.psu.edu/headingshtml/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.3.1 - Info and
      Relationships

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: The technology provides semantic structure to
          make information and relationships conveyed through
          presentation programmatically determinable:

 1.

    ARIA11: Using ARIA landmarks to identify regions of a page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA11> (ARIA)

 2.

    ARIA12: Using role=heading to identify headings
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA12> (ARIA)

 3.

    ARIA13: Using aria-labelledby to name regions and landmarks
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA13> (ARIA)

 4.

    ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user interface
    controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA16> (ARIA)

 5.

    ARIA17: Using grouping roles to identify related form controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA17> (ARIA)

 6.

    ARIA20: Using the region role to identify a region of the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA20> (ARIA)

 7.

    G115: Using semantic elements to mark up structure
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G115> *AND*
    H49: Using semantic markup to mark emphasized or special text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H49> (HTML)

 8.

    G117: Using text to convey information that is conveyed by
    variations in presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G117>

 9.

    G140: Separating information and structure from presentation to
    enable different presentations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G140>

10.

    Making information and relationships conveyed through presentation
    programmatically determinable using the following techniques:

      *

        G138: Using semantic markup whenever color cues are used
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G138>

      *

        H51: Using table markup to present tabular information
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H51> (HTML)

      *

        PDF6: Using table elements for table markup in PDF Documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF6> (PDF)

      *

        PDF20: Using Adobe Acrobat Pro's Table Editor to repair
        mistagged tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF20> (PDF)

      *

        H39: Using caption elements to associate data table captions
        with data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H39> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH31: Specifying caption text for a DataGrid
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH31>
        (Flash)

      *

        H73: Using the summary attribute of the table element to give an
        overview of data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H73> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH23: Adding summary information to a DataGrid
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH23>
        (Flash)

      *

        H63: Using the scope attribute to associate header cells and
        data cells in data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H63> (HTML)

      *

        H43: Using id and headers attributes to associate data cells
        with header cells in data tables
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H43> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH21: Using the DataGrid component to associate column
        headers with cells
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH21>
        (Flash)

      *

        H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form
        controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H44> (HTML)

      *

        H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when
        the label element cannot be used
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H65> (HTML)

      *

        PDF10: Providing labels for interactive form controls in PDF
        documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF10> (PDF)

      *

        PDF12: Providing name, role, value information for form fields
        in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF12> (PDF)

      *

        FLASH32: Using auto labeling to associate text labels with form
        controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH32>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH29: Setting the label property for form components
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH29>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH25: Labeling a form control by setting its accessible name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH25>
        (Flash)

      *

        H71: Providing a description for groups of form controls using
        fieldset and legend elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H71> (HTML)

      *

        SL20: Relying on Silverlight AutomationPeer Behavior to Set
        AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL20>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL26: Using LabeledBy to Associate Labels and Targets in
        Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL26>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        H85: Using OPTGROUP to group OPTION elements inside a SELECT
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H85> (HTML)

      *

        H48: Using ol, ul and dl for lists or groups of links
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H48> (HTML)

      *

        H42: Using h1-h6 to identify headings
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H42> (HTML)

      *

        PDF9: Providing headings by marking content with heading tags in
        PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF9> (PDF)

      *

        SCR21: Using functions of the Document Object Model (DOM) to add
        content to a page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR21>
        (Scripting)

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the Link annotation
        and the /Link structure element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF17: Specifying consistent page numbering for PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF17> (PDF)

      *

        PDF21: Using List tags for lists in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF21> (PDF)

      *

        H97: Grouping related links using the nav element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H97> (HTML)


          Situation B: The technology in use does NOT provide the
          semantic structure to make the information and relationships
          conveyed through presentation programmatically determinable:

 1.

    G117: Using text to convey information that is conveyed by
    variations in presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G117>

 2.

    FLASH8: Adding a group name to the accessible name of a form control
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH8> (Flash)

 3.

    Making information and relationships conveyed through presentation
    programmatically determinable or available in text using the
    following techniques:

      *

        T1: Using standard text formatting conventions for paragraphs
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/T1> (Text)

      *

        T2: Using standard text formatting conventions for lists
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/T2> (Text)

      *

        T3: Using standard text formatting conventions for headings
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/T3> (Text)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.3.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C22> (CSS)

  *

    Using CSS rather than tables for page layout (future link)

  *

    G162: Positioning labels to maximize predictability of relationships
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G162>

  *

    ARIA1: Using the aria-describedby property to provide a descriptive
    label for user interface controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA1> (ARIA)

  *

    ARIA2: Identifying a required field with the aria-required property
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA2> (ARIA)

  *

    Providing labels for all form controls that do not have implicit
    labels (future link)

  *

    G141: Organizing a page using headings
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G141>


        Common Failures for SC 1.3.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.3.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F2: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using changes in text
    presentation to convey information without using the appropriate
    markup or text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F2>

  *

    F33: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to create multiple columns in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F33>

  *

    F34: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to format tables in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F34>

  *

    F42: Failure of Success Criteria 1.3.1, 2.1.1, 2.1.3, or 4.1.2 when
    emulating links
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F42>

  *

    F43: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using structural
    markup in a way that does not represent relationships in the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F43>

  *

    F46: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using th elements,
    caption elements, or non-empty summary attributes in layout tables
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F46>

  *

    F48: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to using the pre element
    to markup tabular information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F48>

  *

    F68: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to a user interface
    control not having a programmatically determined name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F68>

  *

    F87: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to inserting
    non-decorative content by using :before and :after pseudo-elements
    and the 'content' property in CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F87>

  *

    F90: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 for incorrectly associating
    table headers and content via the headers and id attributes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F90>

  *

    F91: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 for not correctly marking up
    table headers
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F91>

  *

    F92: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 due to the use of role
    presentation on content which conveys semantic information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F92>


      Key Terms

presentation

    rendering of the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> in a
    form to be perceived by users

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

relationships

    meaningful associations between distinct pieces of content

structure

     1.

        The way the parts of a Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> are
        organized in relation to each other; and

     2.

        The way a collection of Web pages
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> is
        organized

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Meaningful Sequence*:
    Understanding SC 1.3.2

    *1.3.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-sequence>
    Meaningful Sequence:* When the sequence in which content is
    presented affects its meaning, a correct reading sequence
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#correct-reading-sequencedef>
    can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable a user agent to
provide an alternative presentation of content while preserving the
reading order needed to understand the meaning. It is important that it
be possible to programmatically determine at least one sequence of the
content that makes sense. Content that does not meet this Success
Criterion may confuse or disorient users when assistive technology reads
the content in the wrong order, or when alternate style sheets or other
formatting changes are applied.

A sequence is /meaningful/ if the order of content in the sequence
cannot be changed without affecting its meaning. For example, if a page
contains two independent articles, the relative order of the articles
may not affect their meaning, as long as they are not interleaved. In
such a situation, the articles themselves may have meaningful sequence,
but the container that contains the articles may not have a meaningful
sequence.

The semantics of some elements define whether or not their content is a
meaningful sequence. For instance, in HTML, text is always a meaningful
sequence. Tables and ordered lists are meaningful sequences, but
unordered lists are not.

The order of content in a sequence is not always meaningful. For
example, the relative order of the main section of a Web page and a
navigation section does not affect their meaning. They could occur in
either order in the programmatically determined reading sequence. As
another example, a magazine article contains several callout sidebars.
The order of the article and the sidebars does not affect their meaning.
In these cases there are a number of different reading orders for a Web
page that can satisfy the Success Criterion.

For clarity:

 1.

    Providing a particular linear order is only required where it
    affects meaning.

 2.

    There may be more than one order that is "correct" (according to the
    WCAG 2.0 definition).

 3.

    Only one correct order needs to be provided.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.3.2

  *

    This Success Criterion may help people who rely on assistive
    technologies that read content aloud. The meaning evident in the
    sequencing of the information in the default presentation will be
    the same when the content is presented in spoken form.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.3.2

  *

    *Example 1:* In a multi-column document, the linear presentation of
    the content flows from the top of a column to the bottom of the
    column, then to the top of the next column.

  *

    *Example 2:* CSS is used to position a navigation bar, the main
    story on a page, and a side story. The visual presentation of the
    sections does not match the programmatically determined order, but
    the meaning of the page does not depend on the order of the sections.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.3.2 - Meaningful
      Sequence

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G57: Ordering the content in a meaningful sequence
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G57> for all
    the content in the Web page

 2.

    Marking sequences in the content as meaningful using one of the
    following techniques *AND* G57: Ordering the content in a meaningful
    sequence <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G57>
    for those sequences

      *

        H34: Using a Unicode right-to-left mark (RLM) or left-to-right
        mark (LRM) to mix text direction inline
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H34> (HTML)

      *

        H56: Using the dir attribute on an inline element to resolve
        problems with nested directional runs
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H56> (HTML)

      *

        C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C6> (CSS)

      *

        C8: Using CSS letter-spacing to control spacing within a word
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C8> (CSS)

 3.

    C27: Making the DOM order match the visual order
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C27> (CSS)

 4.

    FLASH15: Using the tabIndex property to specify a logical reading
    order and a logical tab order in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH15> (Flash)

 5.

    PDF3: Ensuring correct tab and reading order in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF3> (PDF)

 6.

    SL34: Using the Silverlight Default Tab Sequence and Altering Tab
    Sequences With Properties
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL34>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.3.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using left-justified text for languages that are written left to
    right and right-justified text for languages that are written
    right-to-left (future link)

  *

    Providing a link to linearized rendering (future link)

  *

    Providing a style switcher between style sheets that affect
    presentation order (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.3.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.3.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F34: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to format tables in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F34>

  *

    F33: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.1 and 1.3.2 due to using white
    space characters to create multiple columns in plain text content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F33>

  *

    F32: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.2 due to using white space
    characters to control spacing within a word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F32>

  *

    F49: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.2 due to using an HTML layout
    table that does not make sense when linearized
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F49>

  *

    F1: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.2 due to changing the meaning
    of content by positioning information with CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F1>


      Key Terms

correct reading sequence

    any sequence where words and paragraphs are presented in an order
    that does not change the meaning of the content

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Sensory Characteristics*:
    Understanding SC 1.3.3

    *1.3.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-understanding>
    Sensory Characteristics:* Instructions provided for understanding
    and operating content do not rely solely on sensory characteristics
    of components such as shape, size, visual location, orientation, or
    sound. (Level A)

    /Note: /For requirements related to color, refer to /Guideline 1.4
    <#visual-audio-contrast>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that all users can
access instructions for using the content, even when they cannot
perceive shape or size or use information about spatial location or
orientation. Some content relies on knowledge of the shape or position
of objects that are not available from the structure of the content (for
example, "round button" or "button to the right"). Some users with
disabilities are not able to perceive shape or position due to the
nature of the assistive technologies they use. This Success Criterion
requires that additional information be provided to clarify anything
that is dependent on this kind of information.

Providing information using shape and/or location, however, is an
effective method for many users including those with cognitive
limitations. This provision should not discourage those types of cues as
long as the information is also provided in other ways.

In some languages, it is commonly understood that "above" refers to the
content previous to that point in the content and "below" refers to the
content after that point. In such languages, if the content being
referenced is in the appropriate place in the reading order and the
references are unambiguous, statements such as "choose one of the links
below" or "all of the above" would conform to this Success Criterion.

WCAG was designed to apply only to controls that were displayed on a web
page. The intent was to avoid describing controls solely via references
to visual or auditory cues. When applying this to instructions for
operating physical hardware controls (e.g. a web kiosk with dedicated
content), tactile cues on the hardware might be described (e.g. the
arrow shaped key, the round key on the right side). This success
criterion is not intended to prevent the use of tactile cues in
instructions.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.3.3

  *

    People who are blind and people who have low vision may not be able
    to understand information if it is conveyed by shape and/or
    location. Providing additional information other than shape and/or
    location will allow them to understand the information conveyed by
    shape and/or alone.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.3.3

  *

    *Example 1: A schedule of competitive events uses color and shape to
    distinguish the time of each event *

    A table presents a list of times across the top row and a list of
    events in the first vertical column. The cell corresponding to the
    time of a particular event has a specific background color and
    diamond shaped glyph so it can be identified by color and shape.

  *

    *Example 2: An on-line multi-page survey *

    An on-line multi-page survey uses a link implemented as a green
    arrow icon placed in the lower right hand corner of the content to
    move from one survey page to the next. The arrow is clearly labeled
    with "Next" and the instructions state, "To move to the next section
    of the survey, select the green arrow icon labeled 'Next' in the
    lower right corner below the last survey question." This example
    uses both positioning, color and labeling to help identify the icon.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.3.3 - Sensory
      Characteristics

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G96: Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely
    only on sensory information to be understood
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G96>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.3.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using an image with a text alternative for graphical symbols instead
    of a Unicode font glyph with the desired graphical appearance but
    different meaning (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.3.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.3.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F14: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to identifying content
    only by its shape or location
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F14>

  *

    F26: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to using a graphical
    symbol alone to convey information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F26>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Distinguishable*:
    Understanding Guideline 1.4

    *Guideline 1.4: * Make it easier for users to see and hear content
    including separating foreground from background.


      Intent of Guideline 1.4

While some guidelines are focused on making information available in a
form that can be presented in alternate formats, this guideline is
concerned with making the default presentation as easy to perceive as
possible to people with disabilities. The primary focus is on making it
easier for users to separate foreground information from the background.
For visual presentations this involves making sure that information
presented on top of a background contrasts sufficiently with the
background. For audio presentations this involves making sure that
foreground sounds are sufficiently louder than the background sounds.
Individuals with visual and hearing disabilities have much greater
difficulty separating foreground and background information.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 1.4 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Using readable fonts (future link)

  *

    Making sure any text in images of text is at least 14 points and has
    good contrast (future link)

  *

    Providing a highly visible highlighting mechanism for links or
    controls when they receive keyboard focus (future link)


    *Use of Color*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.1

    *1.4.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-without-color>
    Use of Color:* Color is not used as the only visual means of
    conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a response,
    or distinguishing a visual element. (Level A)

    /Note: /This success criterion addresses color perception
    specifically. Other forms of perception are covered in /Guideline
    1.3 <#content-structure-separation>/ including programmatic access
    to color and other visual presentation coding.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that all users can
access information that is conveyed by color differences, that is, by
the use of color where each color has a meaning assigned to it. If the
information is conveyed through color differences in an image (or other
non-text format), the color may not be seen by users with color
deficiencies. In this case, providing the information conveyed with
color through another visual means ensures users who cannot see color
can still perceive the information.

Color is an important asset in design of Web content, enhancing its
aesthetic appeal, its usability, and its accessibility. However, some
users have difficulty perceiving color. People with partial sight often
experience limited color vision, and many older users do not see color
well. In addition, people using text-only, limited-color or monochrome
displays and browsers will be unable to access information that is
presented only in color.

Examples of information conveyed by color differences: “required fields
are red", “error is shown in red", and “Mary's sales are in red, Tom's
are in blue". Examples of indications of an action include: using color
to indicate that a link will open in a new window or that a database
entry has been updated successfully. An example of prompting a response
would be: using highlighting on form fields to indicate that a required
field had been left blank.

/Note: /This should not in any way discourage the use of color on a
page, or even color coding if it is redundant with other visual indication.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.1

  *

    Users with partial sight often experience limited color vision.

  *

    Some older users may not be able to see color well.

  *

    Users who have color-blindness benefit when information conveyed by
    color is available in other visual ways.

  *

    People using text-only, limited color, or monochrome displays may be
    unable to access color-dependent information.

  *

    Users who have problems distinguishing between colors can look or
    listen for text cues.

  *

    People using Braille displays or other tactile interfaces can detect
    text cues by touch.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.1

  *

    *A form that uses color and text to indicate required fields*

    A form contains both required and optional fields. Instructions at
    the top of the form explain that required fields are labeled with
    red text and also with an icon whose text alternative says,
    "Required." Both the red text and the icon are programmatically
    associated with the appropriate form fields so that assistive
    technology users can determine the required fields.

  *

    *An examination.*

    Students view an SVG image of a chemical compound and identify the
    chemical elements present based on the colors and numbers used in
    the diagram. The text alternatives associated with each element name
    the color of the element and indicate the element's position in the
    diagram. Students who cannot perceive color have the same
    information about the compound as their classmates. (This technique
    also satisfies Guideline 1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-equiv-all>
    Level A.)

  *

    *Disabled Form elements.*

    Form elements which are disabled via markup or scripting, are greyed
    out and made inactive by the user agent. When in the disabled state
    these elements do not receive focus. Assistive technologies can
    programmatically determine the state of disabled elements and will
    provide this information to the user as the elements are encountered
    on the page. The change in color and loss of focus provides
    redundant, visual information about the state of the control.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Vischeck <http://www.vischeck.com/>

  *

    AWARE Color Laboratory
    <http://colorlab.wickline.org/colorblind/colorlab/>

  *

    Wikipedia: Color Blindness
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Color_blindness>

  *

    Microsoft: Can Color-Blind Users See Your Site?
    <https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb263953.aspx>

  *

    Causes of Color: How do people inherit colorblindness? How often?:
    Genetics <http://www.webexhibits.org/causesofcolor/2C.html>

  *

    How to make figures and presentations that are friendly to
    Colorblind people <http://jfly.iam.u-tokyo.ac.jp/color/>

  *

    The Color Tutor application
    <http://www.tomjewett.com/colors/tutor.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.1 - Use of Color

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the color of particular words, backgrounds, or
          other content is used to indicate information:

 1.

    G14: Ensuring that information conveyed by color differences is also
    available in text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G14>

 2.

    G205: Including a text cue for colored form control labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G205>

 3.

    G182: Ensuring that additional visual cues are available when text
    color differences are used to convey information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G182>

 4.

    G183: Using a contrast ratio of 3:1 with surrounding text and
    providing additional visual cues on focus for links or controls
    where color alone is used to identify them
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G183>


          Situation B: If color is used within an image to convey
          information:

 1.

    G111: Using color and pattern
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G111>

 2.

    G14: Ensuring that information conveyed by color differences is also
    available in text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G14>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Conveying information redundantly using color (future link)

  *

    C15: Using CSS to change the presentation of a user interface
    component when it receives focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C15> (CSS)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F13: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 1.4.1 due to having a
    text alternative that does not include information that is conveyed
    by color differences in the image
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F13>

  *

    F73: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.1 due to creating links that
    are not visually evident without color vision
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F73>

  *

    F81: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.1 due to identifying required
    or error fields using color differences only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F81>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Audio Control*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.2

    *1.4.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-dis-audio>
    Audio Control:* If any audio on a Web page plays automatically for
    more than 3 seconds, either a mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to pause or stop the audio, or a mechanism is available to
    control audio volume independently from the overall system volume
    level. (Level A)

    /Note: /Since any content that does not meet this success criterion
    can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all
    content on the Web page (whether or not it is used to meet other
    success criteria) must meet this success criterion. See /Conformance
    Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

Individuals who use screen reading software can find it hard to hear the
speech output if there is other audio playing at the same time. This
difficulty is exacerbated when the screen reader's speech output is
software based (as most are today) and is controlled via the same volume
control as the sound. Therefore, it is important that the user be able
to turn off the background sound. Note: Having control of the volume
includes being able to reduce its volume to zero.

/Note: /Playing audio automatically when landing on a page may affect a
screen reader user's ability to find the mechanism to stop it because
they navigate by listening and automatically started sounds might
interfere with that navigation. Therefore, we discourage the practice of
automatically starting sounds (especially if they last more than 3
seconds), and encourage that the sound be /started/ by an action
initiated by the user after they reach the page, rather than requiring
that the sound be /stopped/ by an action of the user after they land on
the page.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.7 Low or No Background
Audio <#visual-audio-contrast-noaudio>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.2

  *

    Individuals who use screen reading technologies can hear the screen
    reader without other sounds playing. This is especially important
    for those who are hard of hearing and for those whose screen readers
    use the system volume (so they cannot turn sound down and screen
    reader up).

  *

    This Success Criterion also benefits people who have difficulty
    focusing on visual content (including text) when audio is playing.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.2

  *

    An audio file begins playing automatically when a page is opened.
    However, the audio can be stopped by the user by selecting a
    "silent" link at the top of the page.

  *

    A Flash splash page with sound that plays and then stops in less
    than 3 seconds.

  *

    A Flash splash page with sound that plays automatically includes a
    control at the top that allows users to turn the sound off.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.2 - Audio Control

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G60: Playing a sound that turns off automatically within three
    seconds <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G60>

 2.

    G170: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page that
    turns off sounds that play automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G170>

 3.

    G171: Playing sounds only on user request
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G171>

 4.

    SL24: Using AutoPlay to Keep Silverlight Media from Playing
    Automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL24>
    (Silverlight)

 5.

    FLASH18: Providing a control to turn off sounds that play
    automatically in Flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH18> (Flash)

 6.

    FLASH34: Turning off sounds that play automatically when an
    assistive technology is detected
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH34> (Flash)

 7.

    SL3: Controlling Silverlight MediaElement Audio Volume
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL3>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a site-wide preference to turn off audio in addition to
    providing a control near the top of the Web page that turns off
    sounds that play automatically (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F23: Failure of 1.4.2 due to playing a sound longer than 3 seconds
    where there is no mechanism to turn it off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F23>

  *

    F93: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.2 for absence of a way to
    pause or stop an HTML5 media element that autoplays
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F93>


      Key Terms

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Contrast (Minimum)*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.3

    *1.4.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-contrast>
    Contrast (Minimum):* The visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> and images
    of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    has a contrast ratio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contrast-ratiodef>
    of at least 4.5:1, except for the following: (Level AA)

      *

        *Large Text: * Large-scale
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#larger-scaledef>
        text and images of large-scale text have a contrast ratio of at
        least 3:1;

      *

        *Incidental: * Text or images of text that are part of an
        inactive user interface component
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>,
        that are pure decoration
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef>,
        that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture
        that contains significant other visual content, have no contrast
        requirement.

      *

        *Logotypes: * Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no
        minimum contrast requirement.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide enough contrast
between text and its background so that it can be read by people with
moderately low vision (who do not use contrast-enhancing assistive
technology). For people without color deficiencies, hue and saturation
have minimal or no effect on legibility as assessed by reading
performance (Knoblauch et al., 1991). Color deficiencies can affect
luminance contrast somewhat. Therefore, in the recommendation, the
contrast is calculated in such a way that color is not a key factor so
that people who have a color vision deficit will also have adequate
contrast between the text and the background.

Text that is decorative and conveys no information is excluded. For
example, if random words are used to create a background and the words
could be rearranged or substituted without changing meaning, then it
would be decorative and would not need to meet this criterion.

Text that is larger and has wider character strokes is easier to read at
lower contrast. The contrast requirement for larger text is therefore
lower. This allows authors to use a wider range of color choices for
large text, which is helpful for design of pages, particularly titles.
18 point text or 14 point bold text is judged to be large enough to
require a lower contrast ratio. (See The American Printing House for the
Blind Guidelines for Large Printing and The Library of Congress
Guidelines for Large Print under Resources
<#visual-audio-contrast-contrast-resources-head>). "18 point" and "bold"
can both have different meanings in different fonts but, except for very
thin or unusual fonts, they should be sufficient. Since there are so
many different fonts, the general measures are used and a note regarding
fancy or thin fonts is included.

/Note: /Because different image editing applications default to
different pixel densities (e.g. 72 PPI or 96 PPI), specifying point
sizes for fonts from within an image editing application can be
unreliable when it comes to presenting text at a specific size. When
creating images of large-scale text, authors should ensure that the text
in the resulting image is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to
120% or 150% of the default size for body text. For example, for a 72
PPI image, an author would need to use approximately 19 pt and 24 pt
font sizes in order to successfully present images of large-scale text
to a user.

The previously-mentioned contrast requirements for text also apply to
images of text (text that has been rendered into pixels and then stored
in an image format) as stated in Success Criterion 1.4.3.

This requirement applies to situations in which images of text were
intended to be understood as text. Incidental text, such as in
photographs that happen to include a street sign, are not included. Nor
is text that for some reason is designed to be invisible to all viewers.
Stylized text, such as in corporate logos, should be treated in terms of
its function on the page, which may or may not warrant including the
content in the text alternative. Corporate visual guidelines beyond logo
and logotype are not included in the exception.

In this provision there is an exception that reads "that are part of a
picture that contains significant other visual content,". This exception
is intended to separate pictures that have text in them from images of
text that are done to replace text in order to get a particular look.

/Note 1: /Some people with cognitive disabilities require color
combinations or hues that have low contrast, and therefore we allow and
encourage authors to provide mechanisms to adjust the foreground and
background colors of the content. Some of the combinations that could be
chosen may have contrast levels that will be lower than those found in
the Success Criteria. This is not a violation of this Success Criteria
provided there is a mechanism that will return to the default values set
out in the Success Criteria.

/Note 2: /Images of text do not scale as well as text because they tend
to pixelate. It is also harder to change foreground and background
contrast and color combinations for images of text, which is necessary
for some users. Therefore, we suggest using text wherever possible, and
when not, consider supplying an image of higher resolution.

/Note 3: /The minimum contrast success criterion (1.4.3) applies to text
in the page, and placeholder text is text in the page. If used,
placeholder text needs to provide sufficient contrast.

Although this Success Criterion only applies to text, similar issues
occur for content presented in charts, graphs, diagrams, and other
non-text-based information. Content presented in this manner should also
have good contrast to ensure that more users can access the information.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.6 Contrast (Enhanced)
<#visual-audio-contrast7>/.


        Rationale for the Ratios Chosen

A contrast ratio of 3:1 is the minimum level recommended by [ISO-9241-3]
<#ISO-9241-3> and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> for
standard text and vision. The 4.5:1 ratio is used in this provision to
account for the loss in contrast that results from moderately low visual
acuity, congenital or acquired color deficiencies, or the loss of
contrast sensitivity that typically accompanies aging.

The rationale is based on a) adoption of the 3:1 contrast ratio for
minimum acceptable contrast for normal observers, in the ANSI standard,
and b) the empirical finding that in the population, visual acuity of
20/40 is associated with a contrast sensitivity loss of roughly 1.5
[ARDITI-FAYE] <#ARDITI-FAYE>. A user with 20/40 would thus require a
contrast ratio of 3 * 1.5 = 4.5 to 1. Following analogous empirical
findings and the same logic, the user with 20/80 visual acuity would
require contrast of about 7:1.

Hues are perceived differently by users with color vision deficiencies
(both congenital and acquired) resulting in different colors and
relative luminance contrasts than for normally sighted users. Because of
this, effective contrast and readability are different for this
population. However, color deficiencies are so diverse that prescribing
effective general use color pairs (for contrast) based on quantitative
data is not feasible. Requiring good luminance contrast accommodates
this by requiring contrast that is independent of color perception.
Fortunately, most of the luminance contribution is from the mid and long
wave receptors which largely overlap in their spectral responses. The
result is that effective luminance contrast can generally be computed
without regard to specific color deficiency, except for the use of
predominantly long wavelength colors against darker colors (generally
appearing black) for those who have protanopia. (We provide an advisory
technique on avoiding red on black for that reason). For more
information see [ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1994>
[ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996> [ARDITI] <#ARDITI>.

The contrast ratio of 4.5:1 was chosen for level AA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/40 vision. (20/40
calculates to approximately 4.5:1.) 20/40 is commonly reported as
typical visual acuity of elders at roughly age 80. [GITTINGS-FOZARD]
<#GITTINGS-FOZARD>

The contrast ratio of 7:1 was chosen for level AAA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/80 vision. People
with more than this degree of vision loss usually use assistive
technologies to access their content (and the assistive technologies
usually have contrast enhancing, as well as magnification capability
built into them). The 7:1 level therefore generally provides
compensation for the loss in contrast sensitivity experienced by users
with low vision who do not use assistive technology and provides
contrast enhancement for color deficiency as well.

/Note: /Calculations in [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3> and
[ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> are for body text. A relaxed
contrast ratio is provided for text that is much larger.


        Notes on formula

Conversion from nonlinear to linear RGB values is based on IEC/4WD
61966-2-1 [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and on "A Standard Default Color Space
for the Internet - sRGB" [sRGB] <#sRGB>.

The formula (L1/L2) for contrast is based on [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3>
and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> standards.

The ANSI/HFS 100-1988 standard calls for the contribution from ambient
light to be included in the calculation of L1 and L2. The .05 value used
is based on Typical Viewing Flare from [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and the
[sRGB] <#sRGB> paper by M. Stokes et al.

This Success Criterion and its definitions use the terms "contrast
ratio" and "relative luminance" rather than "luminance" to reflect the
fact that Web content does not emit light itself. The contrast ratio
gives a measure of the relative luminance that would result when
displayed. (Because it is a ratio, it is dimensionless.)

/Note 1: / Refer to related resources
<#visual-audio-contrast-contrast-resources-head> for a list of tools
that utilize the contrast ratio to analyze the contrast of Web content.

/Note 2: /See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.7 Focus Visible
<#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>/ for techniques for indicating
keyboard focus.

/Note 3: /It is sometimes helpful for authors to not specify colors for
certain sections of a page in order to help users who need to view
content with specific color combinations to view the content in their
preferred color scheme. Refer to /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.5
Images of Text <#visual-audio-contrast-text-presentation>/ for more
information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.3

  *

    People with low vision often have difficulty reading text that does
    not contrast with its background. This can be exacerbated if the
    person has a color vision deficiency that lowers the contrast even
    further. Providing a minimum luminance contrast ratio between the
    text and its background can make the text more readable even if the
    person does not see the full range of colors. It also works for the
    rare individuals who see no color.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.3

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Contrast Analyser – Application
    <https://www.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser/>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Analyser - online service
    <http://juicystudio.com/services/luminositycontrastratio.php>

  *

    Colour Contrast Analyser - Firefox Extension
    <http://juicystudio.com/article/colour-contrast-analyser-firefox-extension.php>


  *

    Colour Contrast Check
    <http://snook.ca/technical/colour_contrast/colour.html>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Calculator
    <http://www.msfw.com/accessibility/tools/contrastratiocalculator.aspx>

  *

    Color Contrast Samples <http://trace.wisc.edu/contrast-ratio-examples/>

  *

    Atypical colour response
    <http://www.w3.org/Graphics/atypical-color-response>

  *

    Colors On the Web Color Contrast Analyzer
    <http://www.colorsontheweb.com/colorcontrast.asp>

  *

    Tool to convert images based on color loss so that contrast is
    restored as luminance contrast when there was only color contrast
    (that was lost due to color deficiency)
    <http://www.vischeck.com/daltonize/runDaltonize.php>

  *

    List of color contrast tools
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200709/10_colour_contrast_checking_tools_to_improve_the_accessibility_of_your_design/>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.3 - Contrast
      (Minimum)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: text is less than 18 point if not bold and less
          than 14 point if bold

 1.

    G18: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G18>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: text is at least 18 point if not bold and at
          least 14 point if bold

 1.

    G145: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 3:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G145>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G156: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that can change the foreground and background of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G156>

  *

    Using a higher contrast value for text that is over a patterned
    background (future link)

  *

    Using Unicode text and style sheets instead of images of text
    (future link)

  *

    Using a higher contrast values for lines in diagrams (future link)

  *

    Using greater contrast level for red-black text/background
    combinations (future link)

  *

    Using colors that are composed predominantly of mid spectral
    components for the light and spectral extremes (blue and red
    wavelengths) for the dark

  *

    Using a light pastel background rather than a white background
    behind black text to create sufficient but not extreme contrast
    (future link)

  *

    Making icons using simple line drawings that meet the contrast
    provisions for text (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient contrast ratio in graphs and charts (future link)

  *

    Using a 3:1 contrast ratio or higher as the default presentation
    (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient color contrast for empty text fields (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F24: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3, 1.4.6 and 1.4.8 due to
    specifying foreground colors without specifying background colors or
    vice versa <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F24>

  *

    F83: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3 and 1.4.6 due to using
    background images that do not provide sufficient contrast with
    foreground text (or images of text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F83>


      Key Terms

contrast ratio

    (L1 + 0.05) / (L2 + 0.05), where

      *

        L1 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the lighter of the colors, and

      *

        L2 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the darker of the colors.

    /Note 1: /Contrast ratios can range from 1 to 21 (commonly written
    1:1 to 21:1).

    /Note 2: /Because authors do not have control over user settings as
    to how text is rendered (for example font smoothing or
    anti-aliasing), the contrast ratio for text can be evaluated with
    anti-aliasing turned off.

    /Note 3: /For the purpose of Success Criteria 1.4.3 and 1.4.6,
    contrast is measured with respect to the specified background over
    which the text is rendered in normal usage. If no background color
    is specified, then white is assumed.

    /Note 4: /Background color is the specified color of content over
    which the text is to be rendered in normal usage. It is a failure if
    no background color is specified when the text color is specified,
    because the user's default background color is unknown and cannot be
    evaluated for sufficient contrast. For the same reason, it is a
    failure if no text color is specified when a background color is
    specified.

    /Note 5: /When there is a border around the letter, the border can
    add contrast and would be used in calculating the contrast between
    the letter and its background. A narrow border around the letter
    would be used as the letter. A wide border around the letter that
    fills in the inner details of the letters acts as a halo and would
    be considered background.

    /Note 6: /WCAG conformance should be evaluated for color pairs
    specified in the content that an author would expect to appear
    adjacent in typical presentation. Authors need not consider unusual
    presentations, such as color changes made by the user agent, except
    where caused by authors' code.

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

large scale (text)

    with at least 18 point or 14 point bold or font size that would
    yield equivalent size for Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK) fonts

    /Note 1: /Fonts with extraordinarily thin strokes or unusual
    features and characteristics that reduce the familiarity of their
    letter forms are harder to read, especially at lower contrast levels.

    /Note 2: /Font size is the size when the content is delivered. It
    does not include resizing that may be done by a user.

    /Note 3: /The actual size of the character that a user sees is
    dependent both on the author-defined size and the user's display or
    user-agent settings. For many mainstream body text fonts, 14 and 18
    point is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to 120% or 150% of
    the default size for body text (assuming that the body font is
    100%), but authors would need to check this for the particular fonts
    in use. When fonts are defined in relative units, the actual point
    size is calculated by the user agent for display. The point size
    should be obtained from the user agent, or calculated based on font
    metrics as the user agent does, when evaluating this success
    criterion. Users who have low vision would be responsible for
    choosing appropriate settings.

    /Note 4: /When using text without specifying the font size, the
    smallest font size used on major browsers for unspecified text would
    be a reasonable size to assume for the font. If a level 1 heading is
    rendered in 14pt bold or higher on major browsers, then it would be
    reasonable to assume it is large text. Relative scaling can be
    calculated from the default sizes in a similar fashion.

    /Note 5: /The 18 and 14 point sizes for roman texts are taken from
    the minimum size for large print (14pt) and the larger standard font
    size (18pt). For other fonts such as CJK languages, the "equivalent"
    sizes would be the minimum large print size used for those languages
    and the next larger standard large print size.

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Resize text*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.4

    *1.4.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-scale>
    Resize text:* Except for captions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#captionsdef> and
    images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>,
    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> can be
    resized without assistive technology
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef> up to 200
    percent without loss of content or functionality. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that visually rendered
text, including text-based controls (text characters that have been
displayed so that they can be seen [vs. text characters that are still
in data form such as ASCII]) can be scaled successfully so that it can
be read directly by people with mild visual disabilities, without
requiring the use of assistive technology such as a screen magnifier.
Users may benefit from scaling all content on the Web page, but text is
most critical.

The scaling of content is primarily a user agent responsibility. User
agents that satisfy UAAG 1.0 Checkpoint 4.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/WAI-USERAGENT/guidelines.html#tech-configure-text-scale>
allow users to configure text scale. The author's responsibility is to
create Web content that does not prevent the user agent from scaling the
content effectively. Authors may satisfy this Success Criterion by
verifying that content does not interfere with user agent support for
resizing text, including text-based controls, or by providing direct
support for resizing text or changing the layout. An example of direct
support might be via server-side script that can be used to assign
different style sheets.

The author cannot rely on the user agent to satisfy this Success
Criterion for HTML content if users do not have access to a user agent
with zoom support. For example, if they work in an environment that
requires them to use IE 6.

If the author is using a technology whose user agents do not provide
zoom support, the author is responsible to provide this type of
functionality directly or to provide content that works with the type of
functionality provided by the user agent. If the user agent doesn't
provide zoom functionality but does let the the user change the text
size, the author is responsible for ensuring that the content remains
usable when the text is resized.

Some user interface components that function as a label and require
activation by the user to access content are not wide enough to
accommodate the label's content. For example, in Web mail applications
the subject column may not be wide enough to accommodate every possible
subject header, but activating the subject header takes the user to the
full message with the full subject header. In Web-based spreadsheets,
cell content that is too long to be displayed in a column can be
truncated, and the full content of the cell is available to the user
when the cell receives focus. The content of a user interface component
may also become too wide in user interfaces where the user can resize
the column width. In this type of user interface component, line
wrapping is not required; truncation is acceptable if the component's
full content is available on focus or after user activation and an
indication that this information can be accessed, is provided to the
user in some way besides the fact that it is truncated.

Content satisfies the Success Criterion if it can be scaled up to 200%,
that is, up to twice the width and height. Authors may support scaling
beyond that limit, however, as scaling becomes more extreme, adaptive
layouts may introduce usability problems. For example, words may be too
wide to fit into the horizontal space available to them, causing them to
be truncated; layout constraints may cause text to overlap with other
content when it is scaled larger; or only one word of a sentence may fit
on each line, causing the sentence to be displayed as a vertical column
of text that is difficult to read.

The working group feels that 200% is a reasonable accommodation that can
support a wide range of designs and layouts, and complements older
screen magnifiers that provide a minimum magnification of 200%. Above
200%, zoom (which resizes text, images, and layout regions and creates a
larger canvas that may require both horizontal and vertical scrolling)
may be more effective than text resizing. Assistive technology dedicated
to zoom support would usually be used in such a situation and may
provide better accessibility than attempts by the author to support the
user directly.

/Note: /Images of text do not scale as well as text because they tend to
pixelate, and therefore we suggest using text wherever possible. It is
also harder to change foreground and background contrast and color
combinations for images of text, which are necessary for some users.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.8 Visual Presentation
<#visual-audio-contrast-visual-presentation>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.4

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with low vision by letting them
    increase text size in content so that they can read it.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.4

  *

    A user with vision impairments increases the text size on a Web page
    in a browser from 1 em to 1.2 ems. While the user could not read the
    text at the smaller size, she can read the larger text. All the
    information on the page is still displayed when the larger font is
    used for the text.

  *

    A Web page contains a control for changing the scale of the page.
    Selecting different settings changes the layout of the page to use
    the best design for that scale.

  *

    A user uses a zoom function in his user agent to change the scale of
    the content. All the content scales uniformly, and the user agent
    provides scroll bars, if necessary.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS 2 Box Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/box.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visuren.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model Details
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visudet.html>

  *

    About fluid and fixed width layouts
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200504/about_fluid_and_fixed_width_layouts/>


  *

    Accessible CSS
    <http://cookiecrook.com/AIR/2003/train/accessiblecss.php>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.4 - Resize text

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G142: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that support zoom
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G142>

 2.

    SL22: Supporting Browser Zoom in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL22>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    SL23: Using A Style Switcher to Increase Font Size of Silverlight
    Text Elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL23>
    (Silverlight)

 4.

    Ensuring that text containers resize when the text resizes *AND*
    using measurements that are relative to other measurements in the
    content by using one or more of the following techniques:

      *

        C28: Specifying the size of text containers using em units
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C28> (CSS)

      *

        Techniques for relative measurements

          o

            C12: Using percent for font sizes
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C12>
            (CSS)

          o

            C13: Using named font sizes
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C13>
            (CSS)

          o

            C14: Using em units for font sizes
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C14>
            (CSS)

      *

        Techniques for text container resizing

          o

            SCR34: Calculating size and position in a way that scales
            with text size
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR34>
            (Scripting)

          o

            G146: Using liquid layout
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G146>

 5.

    G178: Providing controls on the Web page that allow users to
    incrementally change the size of all text on the page up to 200
    percent <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G178>

 6.

    G179: Ensuring that there is no loss of content or functionality
    when the text resizes and text containers do not change their width
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G179>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing large fonts by default (future link)

  *

    Using page-percent for container sizes (future link)

  *

    Avoiding scaling font sizes smaller than the user-agent default
    (future link)

    /Note: /The author won't actually know the font size, but should
    avoid percentage scaling that results in less than 100%

  *

    Avoiding justified text (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient inter-line and inter-column spacing (future link)

  *

    Providing different sizes for non-text content when it cannot have
    an equivalent accessible alternative (future link)

  *

    Avoiding the use of text in raster images (future link)

  *

    Using server-side scripts to resize images of text (future link)

  *

    C17: Scaling form elements which contain text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C17> (CSS)

  *

    Ensuring that text in raster images is at least 18pt (future link)

  *

    Scaling text down to 50% (future link)

  *

    C20: Using relative measurements to set column widths so that lines
    can average 80 characters or less when the browser is resized
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C20> (CSS)

  *

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C22> (CSS)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to allow captions to be enlarged (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F69: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.4 when resizing visually
    rendered text up to 200 percent causes the text, image or controls
    to be clipped, truncated or obscured
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F69>

  *

    F80: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.4 when text-based form
    controls do not resize when visually rendered text is resized up to
    200% <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F80>


      Key Terms

assistive technology (as used in this document)

    hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>, or
    along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet
    the requirements of users with disabilities that go beyond those
    offered by mainstream user agents

    /Note 1: / functionality provided by assistive technology includes
    alternative presentations (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified
    content), alternative input methods (e.g., voice), additional
    navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
    (e.g., to make tables more accessible).

    /Note 2: /Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages
    with mainstream user agents by using and monitoring APIs.

    /Note 3: /The distinction between mainstream user agents and
    assistive technologies is not absolute. Many mainstream user agents
    provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities. The
    basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and
    diverse audiences that usually include people with and without
    disabilities. Assistive technologies target narrowly defined
    populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
    provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate
    to the needs of its target users. The mainstream user agent may
    provide important functionality to assistive technologies like
    retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing markup into
    identifiable bundles.

    /Example: /Assistive technologies that are important in the context
    of this document include the following:

      *

        screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which
        are used by people with visual, perceptual and physical print
        disabilities to change text font, size, spacing, color,
        synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual
        readability of rendered text and images;

      *

        screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read
        textual information through synthesized speech or braille;

      *

        text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with
        cognitive, language, and learning disabilities to convert text
        into synthetic speech;

      *

        speech recognition software, which may be used by people who
        have some physical disabilities;

      *

        alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain
        physical disabilities to simulate the keyboard (including
        alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single switches,
        sip/puff and other special input devices.);

      *

        alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with
        certain physical disabilities to simulate mouse pointing and
        button activations.

captions

    synchronized visual and/or text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> for
    both speech and non-speech audio information needed to understand
    the media content

    /Note 1: /Captions are similar to dialogue-only subtitles except
    captions convey not only the content of spoken dialogue, but also
    equivalents for non-dialogue audio information needed to understand
    the program content, including sound effects, music, laughter,
    speaker identification and location.

    /Note 2: /Closed Captions are equivalents that can be turned on and
    off with some players.

    /Note 3: /Open Captions are any captions that cannot be turned off.
    For example, if the captions are visual equivalent images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    embedded in video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>.

    /Note 4: /Captions should not obscure or obstruct relevant
    information in the video.

    /Note 5: /In some countries, captions are called subtitles.

    /Note 6: / Audio descriptions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodescdef> can
    be, but do not need to be, captioned since they are descriptions of
    information that is already presented visually.

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Images of Text*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.5

    *1.4.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-text-presentation>
    Images of Text:* If the technologies being used can achieve the
    visual presentation, text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> is used to
    convey information rather than images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    except for the following: (Level AA)

      *

        *Customizable:* The image of text can be visually customized
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visually-customizeddef>
        to the user's requirements;

      *

        *Essential:* A particular presentation of text is essential
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef> to
        the information being conveyed.

    /Note: /Logotypes (text that is part of a logo or brand name) are
    considered essential.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to encourage authors, who are
using technologies which are capable of achieving their desired default
visual presentation, to enable people who require a particular visual
presentation of text to be able to adjust the text presentation as
needed. This includes people who require the text in a particular font
size, foreground and background color, font family, line spacing or
alignment.

If an author can use text to achieve the same visual effect, he or she
should present the information as text rather than using an image. If
for any reason, the author cannot format the text to get the same
effect, the effect won't be reliably presented on the commonly available
user agents, or using a technology to meet this criterion would
interfere with meeting other criteria such as 1.4.4, then an image of
text can be used. This includes instances where a particular
presentation of text is essential to the information being conveyed,
such as type samples, logotypes, branding, etc. Images of text may also
be used in order to use a particular font that is either not widely
deployed or which the author doesn't have the right to redistribute, or
to ensure that the text would be anti-aliased on all user agents.

Images of text can also be used where it is possible for users to
customize the image of text to match their requirements.

The definition of image of text contains the note: "Note: This does not
include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other
visual content." Examples of such pictures include graphs, screenshots,
and diagrams which visually convey important information through more
than just text.

Techniques for satisfying this Success Criterion are the same as those
for Success Criterion 1.4.9, except that they only need to apply if the
visual presentation can be achieved with the technologies that the
author is using. For Success Criterion 1.4.9, the sufficient techniques
would be applied only when the user can customize the output.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.9 Images of Text (No
Exception) <#visual-audio-contrast-text-images>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.5

  *

    People with low vision (who may have trouble reading the text with
    the authored font family, size and/or color).

  *

    People with visual tracking problems (who may have trouble reading
    the text with the authored line spacing and/or alignment).

  *

    People with cognitive disabilities that affect reading.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.5

  *

    *Styled Headings *

    Rather than using bitmap images to present headings in a specific
    font and size, an author uses CSS to achieve the same result.

  *

    *Dynamically Generated Images *

    A Web page uses server-side scripting to present text as an an
    image. The page includes controls that allow the user to adjust the
    font size and foreground and background colors of the generated image.

  *

    *A quote*

    A Web page contains a quote. The quote itself is presented as
    italicized text, indented from the left margin. The name of the
    person to whom the quote is attributed is below the quote with 1.5x
    the line space and further indented from the left margin. CSS is
    used to position the text; set the spacing between lines; as well as
    display the text's font family, size, color and decoration.

  *

    *Navigation items*

    A Web page contains a menu of navigation links that have both an
    icon and text to describe their target. CSS is used to display the
    text's font family, size and foreground and background colors; as
    well as the spacing between the navigation links.

  *

    *A logo containing text*

    A Web site contains the organization's logo in the top left corner
    of each Web page. The logo contains logotype (text as part, or all,
    of the logo). The visual presentation of the text is essential to
    the identity of the logo and is included as a gif image which does
    not allow the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a
    text alternative.

  *

    *Representation of a font family*

    A Web page contains information about a particular font family.
    Substituting the font family with another font would defeat the
    purpose of the representation. The representation is included as a
    jpeg image which does not allow the text characteristics to be
    changed. The image has a text alternative.

  *

    *A representation of a letter*

    A Web page contains a representation of an original letter. The
    depiction of the letter in its original format is essential to
    information being conveyed about the time period in which it was
    written. The letter is included as a gif image which does not allow
    the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a text
    alternative.

  *

    *Symbolic text characters*

    A form allows users to enter blocks of text. The form provides a
    number of buttons, including functions to style the text and check
    spelling. Some of the buttons use text characters that do not form a
    sequence that expresses something in human language. For example "B"
    to increase font weight, "I" to italicize the text and "ABC" to
    check the spelling. The symbolic text characters are included as gif
    images which do not allow the text characteristics to be changed.
    The buttons have text alternatives.

  *

    *Customizable font settings in images of text*

    A Web site allows users to specify font settings and all images of
    text on the site are then provided based on those settings.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS Web fonts <http://alistapart.com/article/cssatten>

  *

    Weblog comments: WebKit now supports CSS @font-face rules
    <http://clagnut.com/blog/2042/>

  *

    Creating Cross Browser Compatible CSS Text Shadows
    <http://www.workingwith.me.uk/articles/css/cross-browser-drop-shadows>

  *

    CSS and text <http://www.yourhtmlsource.com/stylesheets/csstext.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.5 - Images of Text

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C22> (CSS)

 2.

    SL31: Using Silverlight Font Properties to Control Text Presentation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL31>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    C30: Using CSS to replace text with images of text and providing
    user interface controls to switch
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C30> (CSS)

 4.

    G140: Separating information and structure from presentation to
    enable different presentations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G140>

 5.

    PDF7: Performing OCR on a scanned PDF document to provide actual
    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF7> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          General techniques for non-text content

 1.

    Identifying informative non-text content (future link)


          CSS Techniques

 1.

    C12: Using percent for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C12> (CSS)

 2.

    C13: Using named font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C13> (CSS)

 3.

    C14: Using em units for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C14> (CSS)

 4.

    C8: Using CSS letter-spacing to control spacing within a word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C8> (CSS)

 5.

    C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C6> (CSS)

 6.

    Avoid applying text styling to text characters within a word (future
    link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

visually customized

    the font, size, color, and background can be set

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Contrast (Enhanced)*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.6

    *1.4.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast7>
    Contrast (Enhanced):* The visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> and images
    of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    has a contrast ratio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contrast-ratiodef>
    of at least 7:1, except for the following: (Level AAA)

      *

        *Large Text: * Large-scale
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#larger-scaledef>
        text and images of large-scale text have a contrast ratio of at
        least 4.5:1;

      *

        *Incidental: * Text or images of text that are part of an
        inactive user interface component
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>,
        that are pure decoration
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef>,
        that are not visible to anyone, or that are part of a picture
        that contains significant other visual content, have no contrast
        requirement.

      *

        *Logotypes: * Text that is part of a logo or brand name has no
        minimum contrast requirement.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide enough contrast
between text and its background so that it can be read by people with
moderately low vision (who do not use contrast-enhancing assistive
technology). For people without color deficiencies, hue and saturation
have minimal or no effect on legibility as assessed by reading
performance (Knoblauch et al., 1991). Color deficiencies can affect
luminance contrast somewhat. Therefore, in the recommendation, the
contrast is calculated in such a way that color is not a key factor so
that people who have a color vision deficit will also have adequate
contrast between the text and the background.

Text that is decorative and conveys no information is excluded. For
example, if random words are used to create a background and the words
could be rearranged or substituted without changing meaning, then it
would be decorative and would not need to meet this criterion.

Text that is larger and has wider character strokes is easier to read at
lower contrast. The contrast requirement for larger text is therefore
lower. This allows authors to use a wider range of color choices for
large text, which is helpful for design of pages, particularly titles.
18 point text or 14 point bold text is judged to be large enough to
require a lower contrast ratio. (See The American Printing House for the
Blind Guidelines for Large Printing and The Library of Congress
Guidelines for Large Print under Resources
<#visual-audio-contrast7-resources-head>). "18 point" and "bold" can
both have different meanings in different fonts but, except for very
thin or unusual fonts, they should be sufficient. Since there are so
many different fonts, the general measures are used and a note regarding
fancy or thin fonts is included.

/Note 1: /When fonts have anti-aliasing applied to make them look
smoother, they can lose darkness or lightness. Thus, the actual contrast
can be reduced. Thicker stem widths will reduce this effect (thin fonts
could have the full stem lightened rather than just the ends). Using
larger fonts and testing for legibility in user agents with font
smoothing turned on is recommended.

/Note 2: /Because different image editing applications default to
different pixel densities (ex. 72 PPI or 96 PPI), specifying point sizes
for fonts from within an image editing application can be unreliable
when it comes to presenting text at a specific size. When creating
images of large-scale text, authors should ensure that the text in the
resulting image is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to 120% or
150% of the default size for body text. For example, for a 72 PPI image,
an author would need to use approximately 19 pt and 24 pt font sizes in
order to successfully present large-scale images of text to a user.

The previously-mentioned contrast requirements for text also apply to
images of text (text that has been rendered into pixels and then stored
in an image format) as stated in Success Criterion 1.4.5

This requirement applies to situations in which images of text were
intended to be understood as text. Incidental text, such as in
photographs that happen to include a street sign, are not included. Nor
is text that for some reason is designed to be invisible to all users.
Stylized text, such as in corporate logos, should be treated in terms of
its function on the page, which may or may not warrant including the
content in the text alternative. Corporate visual guidelines beyond logo
and logotype are not included in the exception.

In this provision there is an exception that reads "that are part of a
picture that contains significant other visual content,". This exception
is intended to separate pictures that have text in them from images of
text that are done to replace text in order to get a particular look.

Although this Success Criterion only applies to text, similar issues
occur for content presented in charts, graphs, diagrams, and other
non-text-based information. Content presented in this manner should also
have good contrast to ensure that more users can access the information.


        Rationale for the Ratios Chosen

A contrast ratio of 3:1 is the minimum level recommended by [ISO-9241-3]
<#ISO-9241-3> and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> for
standard text and vision. The 4.5:1 ratio is used in Success Criterion
1.4.3 to account for the loss in contrast that results from moderately
low visual acuity, congenital or acquired color deficiencies, or the
loss of contrast sensitivity that typically accompanies aging.

The rationale is based on a) adoption of the 3:1 contrast ratio for
minimum acceptable contrast for normal observers, in the ANSI standard,
and b) the empirical finding that in the population, visual acuity of
20/40 is associated with a contrast sensitivity loss of roughly 1.5
[ARDITI-FAYE] <#ARDITI-FAYE>. A user with 20/40 would thus require a
contrast ratio of 3 * 1.5 = 4.5 to 1. Following analogous empirical
findings and the same logic, the user with 20/80 visual acuity would
require contrast of about 7:1.

Hues are perceived differently by users with color vision deficiencies
(both congenital and acquired) resulting in different colors and
relative luminance contrasts than for normally sighted users. Because of
this, effective contrast and readability are different for this
population. However, color deficiencies are so diverse that prescribing
effective general use color pairs (for contrast) based on quantitative
data is not feasible. Requiring good luminance contrast accommodates
this by requiring contrast that is independent of color perception.
Fortunately, most of the luminance contribution is from the mid and long
wave receptors which largely overlap in their spectral responses. The
result is that effective luminance contrast can generally be computed
without regard to specific color deficiency, except for the use of
predominantly long wavelength colors against darker colors (generally
appearing black) for those who have protanopia. (We provide an advisory
technique on avoiding red on black for that reason). For more
information see [ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1994>
[ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996] <#ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996> [ARDITI] <#ARDITI>.

The contrast ratio of 4.5:1 was chosen for level AA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/40 vision. (20/40
calculates to approximately 4.5:1.) 20/40 is commonly reported as
typical visual acuity of elders at roughly age 80. [GITTINGS-FOZARD]
<#GITTINGS-FOZARD>

The contrast ratio of 7:1 was chosen for level AAA because it
compensated for the loss in contrast sensitivity usually experienced by
users with vision loss equivalent to approximately 20/80 vision. People
with more than this degree of vision loss usually use assistive
technologies to access their content (and the assistive technologies
usually have contrast enhancing, as well as magnification capability
built into them). The 7:1 level therefore generally provides
compensation for the loss in contrast sensitivity experienced by users
with low vision who do not use assistive technology and provides
contrast enhancement for color deficiency as well.

/Note: /Calculations in [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3> and
[ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> are for body text. A relaxed
contrast ratio is provided for text that is much larger.


        Notes on formula

Conversion from nonlinear to linear RGB values is based on IEC/4WD
61966-2-1 [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and on "A Standard Default Color Space
for the Internet - sRGB" [sRGB] <#sRGB>.

The formula (L1/L2) for contrast is based on [ISO-9241-3] <#ISO-9241-3>
and [ANSI-HFES-100-1988] <#ANSI-HFES-100-1988> standards.

The ANSI/HFS 100-1988 standard calls for the contribution from ambient
light to be included in the calculation of L1 and L2. The .05 value used
is based on Typical Viewing Flare from [IEC-4WD] <#IEC-4WD> and the
[sRGB] <#sRGB> paper by M. Stokes et al.

This Success Criterion and its definitions use the terms "contrast
ratio" and "relative luminance" rather than "luminance" to reflect the
fact that Web content does not emit light itself. The contrast ratio
gives a measure of the relative luminance that would result when
displayed. (Because it is a ratio, it is dimensionless.)

/Note 1: / Refer to related resources
<#visual-audio-contrast7-resources-head> for a list of tools that
utilize the contrast ratio to analyze the contrast of Web content.

/Note 2: /See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.7 Focus Visible
<#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>/ for techniques for indicating
keyboard focus.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.6

  *

    People with low vision often have difficulty reading text that does
    not contrast with its background. This can be exacerbated if the
    person has a color vision deficiency that lowers the contrast even
    further. Providing a minimum luminance contrast ratio between the
    text and its background can make the text more readable even if the
    person does not see the full range of colors. It also works for the
    rare individuals who see no color.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.6

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Contrast Analyser – Application
    <https://www.paciellogroup.com/resources/contrastanalyser/>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Analyser - online service
    <http://juicystudio.com/services/luminositycontrastratio.php>

  *

    Colour Contrast Analyser - Firefox Extension
    <http://juicystudio.com/article/colour-contrast-analyser-firefox-extension.php>


  *

    Colour Contrast Check
    <http://snook.ca/technical/colour_contrast/colour.html>

  *

    Contrast Ratio Calculator
    <http://www.msfw.com/accessibility/tools/contrastratiocalculator.aspx>

  *

    Color Contrast Samples <http://trace.wisc.edu/contrast-ratio-examples/>

  *

    Atypical colour response
    <http://www.w3.org/Graphics/atypical-color-response>

  *

    Colors On the Web Color Contrast Analyzer
    <http://www.colorsontheweb.com/colorcontrast.asp>

  *

    6 Surprising Bad Practices That Hurt Dyslexic Users
    <http://uxmovement.com/content/6-surprising-bad-practices-that-hurt-dyslexic-users/>


  *

    Design for Dyslexics
    <http://accessites.org/site/2006/11/designing-for-dyslexics-part-3-of-3>


  *

    Typefaces for Dyslexia
    <http://www.iansyst.co.uk/articles/article/articles/2012/10/18/fonts-for-dyslexia>


  *

    Web Design for Dyslexia <http://www.dyslexia.com/library/webdesign.htm>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.6 - Contrast
      (Enhanced)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: text is less than 18 point if not bold and less
          than 14 point if bold

 1.

    G17: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 7:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G17>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: text is as least 18 point if not bold and at
          least 14 point if bold

 1.

    G18: Ensuring that a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1 exists between
    text (and images of text) and background behind the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G18>

 2.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G148>

 3.

    G174: Providing a control with a sufficient contrast ratio that
    allows users to switch to a presentation that uses sufficient
    contrast <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G174>

 4.

    SL13: Providing A Style Switcher To Switch To High Contrast
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL13>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G156: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that can change the foreground and background of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G156>

  *

    Using a higher contrast value for text that is over a patterned
    background (future link)

  *

    Using Unicode text and style sheets instead of images of text
    (future link)

  *

    Using a higher contrast values for lines in diagrams (future link)

  *

    Using greater contrast level for red-black text/background combinations

  *

    Using colors that are composed predominantly of mid spectral
    components for the light and spectral extremes (blue and red
    wavelengths) for the dark

  *

    Using a light pastel background rather than a white background
    behind black text to create sufficient but not extreme contrast
    (future link)

  *

    Making icons using simple line drawings that meet the contrast
    provisions for text (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient contrast ratio in graphs and charts (future link)

  *

    Using a 3:1 contrast ratio or higher as the default presentation
    (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient color contrast for empty text fields (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F24: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3, 1.4.6 and 1.4.8 due to
    specifying foreground colors without specifying background colors or
    vice versa <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F24>

  *

    F83: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3 and 1.4.6 due to using
    background images that do not provide sufficient contrast with
    foreground text (or images of text)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F83>


      Key Terms

contrast ratio

    (L1 + 0.05) / (L2 + 0.05), where

      *

        L1 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the lighter of the colors, and

      *

        L2 is the relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of the darker of the colors.

    /Note 1: /Contrast ratios can range from 1 to 21 (commonly written
    1:1 to 21:1).

    /Note 2: /Because authors do not have control over user settings as
    to how text is rendered (for example font smoothing or
    anti-aliasing), the contrast ratio for text can be evaluated with
    anti-aliasing turned off.

    /Note 3: /For the purpose of Success Criteria 1.4.3 and 1.4.6,
    contrast is measured with respect to the specified background over
    which the text is rendered in normal usage. If no background color
    is specified, then white is assumed.

    /Note 4: /Background color is the specified color of content over
    which the text is to be rendered in normal usage. It is a failure if
    no background color is specified when the text color is specified,
    because the user's default background color is unknown and cannot be
    evaluated for sufficient contrast. For the same reason, it is a
    failure if no text color is specified when a background color is
    specified.

    /Note 5: /When there is a border around the letter, the border can
    add contrast and would be used in calculating the contrast between
    the letter and its background. A narrow border around the letter
    would be used as the letter. A wide border around the letter that
    fills in the inner details of the letters acts as a halo and would
    be considered background.

    /Note 6: /WCAG conformance should be evaluated for color pairs
    specified in the content that an author would expect to appear
    adjacent in typical presentation. Authors need not consider unusual
    presentations, such as color changes made by the user agent, except
    where caused by authors' code.

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

large scale (text)

    with at least 18 point or 14 point bold or font size that would
    yield equivalent size for Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK) fonts

    /Note 1: /Fonts with extraordinarily thin strokes or unusual
    features and characteristics that reduce the familiarity of their
    letter forms are harder to read, especially at lower contrast levels.

    /Note 2: /Font size is the size when the content is delivered. It
    does not include resizing that may be done by a user.

    /Note 3: /The actual size of the character that a user sees is
    dependent both on the author-defined size and the user's display or
    user-agent settings. For many mainstream body text fonts, 14 and 18
    point is roughly equivalent to 1.2 and 1.5 em or to 120% or 150% of
    the default size for body text (assuming that the body font is
    100%), but authors would need to check this for the particular fonts
    in use. When fonts are defined in relative units, the actual point
    size is calculated by the user agent for display. The point size
    should be obtained from the user agent, or calculated based on font
    metrics as the user agent does, when evaluating this success
    criterion. Users who have low vision would be responsible for
    choosing appropriate settings.

    /Note 4: /When using text without specifying the font size, the
    smallest font size used on major browsers for unspecified text would
    be a reasonable size to assume for the font. If a level 1 heading is
    rendered in 14pt bold or higher on major browsers, then it would be
    reasonable to assume it is large text. Relative scaling can be
    calculated from the default sizes in a similar fashion.

    /Note 5: /The 18 and 14 point sizes for roman texts are taken from
    the minimum size for large print (14pt) and the larger standard font
    size (18pt). For other fonts such as CJK languages, the "equivalent"
    sizes would be the minimum large print size used for those languages
    and the next larger standard large print size.

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Low or No Background Audio*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.7

    *1.4.7
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-noaudio>
    Low or No Background Audio:* For prerecorded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#prerecordeddef>
    audio-only
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audio-onlydef>
    content that (1) contains primarily speech in the foreground, (2) is
    not an audio CAPTCHA
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#CAPTCHAdef> or audio
    logo, and (3) is not vocalization intended to be primarily musical
    expression such as singing or rapping, at least one of the following
    is true: (Level AAA)

      *

        *No Background: *The audio does not contain background sounds.

      *

        *Turn Off: *The background sounds can be turned off.

      *

        *20 dB: * The background sounds are at least 20 decibels lower
        than the foreground speech content, with the exception of
        occasional sounds that last for only one or two seconds.

        /Note: /Per the definition of "decibel," background sound that
        meets this requirement will be approximately four times quieter
        than the foreground speech content.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that any non-speech
sounds are low enough that a user who is hard of hearing can separate
the speech from background sounds or other noise foreground speech content.

The value of 20 dB was chosen based on Large area assistive listening
systems (ALS): Review and recommendations [LAALS] <#LAALS> and
In-the-ear measurements of interference in hearing aids from digital
wireless telephones [HEARING-AID-INT] <#HEARING-AID-INT>


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.7

  *

    People who are hard of hearing often have great difficulty
    separating speech from background sound.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.7

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    About Decibels <http://trace.wisc.edu/docs/2004-About-dB/index.htm>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.7 - Low or No
      Background Audio

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G56: Mixing audio files so that non-speech sounds are at least 20
    decibels lower than the speech audio content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G56>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.7

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a way for users to adjust auditory levels of foreground
    and background sound independently (future link)

  *

    Providing an audio track for synchronized media that includes
    background sounds that are at least 20 decibels lower than speech
    (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.7

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.7 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

CAPTCHA

    initialism for "Completely Automated Public Turing test to tell
    Computers and Humans Apart"

    /Note 1: /CAPTCHA tests often involve asking the user to type in
    text that is displayed in an obscured image or audio file.

    /Note 2: /A Turing test is any system of tests designed to
    differentiate a human from a computer. It is named after famed
    computer scientist Alan Turing. The term was coined by researchers
    at Carnegie Mellon University. [CAPTCHA] <#CAPTCHA>

audio-only

    a time-based presentation that contains only audio
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> (no video
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef> and no
    interaction)

prerecorded

    information that is not live
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#livedef>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Visual Presentation*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.8

    *1.4.8
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-visual-presentation>
    Visual Presentation:* For the visual presentation of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blockstextdef>, a
    mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to achieve the following: (Level AAA)

     1.

        Foreground and background colors can be selected by the user.

     2.

        Width is no more than 80 characters or glyphs (40 if CJK).

     3.

        Text is not justified (aligned to both the left and the right
        margins).

     4.

        Line spacing (leading) is at least space-and-a-half within
        paragraphs, and paragraph spacing is at least 1.5 times larger
        than the line spacing.

     5.

        Text can be resized without assistive technology up to 200
        percent in a way that does not require the user to scroll
        horizontally to read a line of text on a full-screen window
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#fullscreenwindowdef>.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that visually rendered
text is presented in such a manner that it can be perceived without its
layout interfering with its readability. People with some cognitive,
language and learning disabilities and some low vision users cannot
perceive the text and/or lose their reading place if the text is
presented in a manner that is difficult for them to read.

People with some visual or cognitive disabilities need to be able to
select the color of text and the color of the background. They sometimes
choose combinations that seem unintuitive to someone without that
disability. Sometimes these combinations have very low contrast.
Sometimes only very specific color combinations work for them. Control
of color or other aspects of text presentation makes a huge difference
to their comprehension.

For people with some reading or vision disabilities, long lines of text
can become a significant barrier. They have trouble keeping their place
and following the flow of text. Having a narrow block of text makes it
easier for them to continue on to the next line in a block. Lines should
not exceed 80 characters or glyphs (40 if CJK), where glyphs are the
element of writing in the writing system for the text. Studies have
shown that Chinese, Japanese and Korean (CJK) characters are
approximately twice as wide as non-CJK characters when both types of
characters are displayed with characteristics that achieve the same
readability, so the maximum line width for CJK characters is half that
of non-CJK characters.

People with some cognitive disabilities find it difficult to track text
where the lines are close together. Providing extra space between lines
and paragraphs allows them to better track the next line and to
recognize when they have reached the end of a paragraph. It is best if
there are several different options, for instance, space-and-a-half and
double spacing for line spacing. By space and a half within paragraphs
we mean that top of one line is 150% further from the top of the line
below it than would be true when the text is 'single spaced' (the
default spacing for the font). By Paragraph spacing that is 1.5 times
larger than the line spacing we mean that the spacing from the top of
the last line of 1 paragraph is 250% farther from the Top of the first
line of the next paragraph (i.e., that there is a blank line between the
two paragraphs that is 150% of the single space blank line).

People with certain cognitive disabilities have problems reading text
that is both left and right justified. The uneven spacing between words
in fully justified text can cause "rivers of white" space to run down
the page making reading difficult and in some cases impossible. Text
justification can also cause words to be spaced closely together, so
that it is difficult for them to locate word boundaries.

The resizing provision ensures that visually rendered text (text
characters that have been displayed so that they can be seen [vs. text
characters that are still in data form such as ASCII]) can be scaled
successfully without requiring that the user scroll left and right to
see all of the content. When the content has been authored so that this
is possible, the content is said to reflow. This permits people with low
vision and people with cognitive disabilities to increase the size of
the text without becoming disoriented.

The scaling of content is primarily a user agent responsibility. User
agents that satisfy UAAG 1.0 Checkpoint 4.1 allow users to configure
text scale. The author's responsibility is to create Web content that
does not prevent the user agent from scaling the content and that allows
the reflow of the content within the current width of the viewport. See
/Understanding Success Criterion 1.4.4 Resize text
<#visual-audio-contrast-scale>/ for additional discussion of resizing text.

The horizontal scrolling requirement is not intended to apply to
small-screen devices where long words may be displayed on a single line
and require users to scroll horizontally. For the purposes of this
requirement, authors should ensure that content meets this requirement
on standard desktop/laptop displays with the browser window maximized.
Since people generally keep their computers for several years, it is
best not to rely on the latest desktop/laptop display resolutions but to
consider the common desktop/laptop display resolutions over the course
of several years when making this evaluation.

Wrapping should always be possible as long as words are not so long that
a single word is more than half the width of a full screen. Very long
URIs may run off the side of an enlarged screen, but they would not be
considered text for "reading" and, therefore, would not violate this
provision.

This provision does not mean that a user would never need to use
horizontal scrolling. It only means that they would not need to use
horizontal scrolling back and forth to read a line of text. For example,
if a page consisted of two equal sized columns of text, it would
automatically meet this provision. Enlarging the page would mean that
the first column was completely on screen and the user could just scroll
vertically down the page to read it. To read the second column, they
would horizontally scroll to the right, where the right hand column
would then fit entirely within the width of the screen, and read that
column without further horizontal scrolling.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.8

This Success Criterion helps low vision users by letting them see text
without distracting presentational features. It lets them configure text
in ways that will be easier for them to see by letting them control the
color and size of blocks of text.

This Success Criterion helps people with cognitive, language and
learning disabilities perceive text and track their location within
blocks of text.

  *

    People with some cognitive disabilities can read text better when
    they select their own foreground and background color combinations.

  *

    People with some cognitive disabilities can track their locations
    more easily when blocks of text are narrow and when they can
    configure the amount of space between lines and paragraphs.

  *

    People with some cognitive disabilities can read text more easily
    when the spacing between words is regular.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.8

The following images show examples of single-spacing, space-and-a-half
and double-spaced text in a paragraph.

Example of single-spaced text. (no space between each line of
text)Example of space-and-a-half text. (a space equal to half the height
of a line of text line)Example of double-spaced text. (a space equal to
the height of a line of text between each line)

Examples of glyphs include "A", "→" (an arrow symbol), and "さ" (a
Japanese character).


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS 2 Box Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/box.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visuren.html>

  *

    CSS 2 Visual formatting Model Details
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/visudet.html>

  *

    About fluid and fixed width layouts
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200504/about_fluid_and_fixed_width_layouts/>


  *

    Accessible CSS
    <http://cookiecrook.com/AIR/2003/train/accessiblecss.php>

  *

    Ideal line length for content <http://maxdesign.com.au/articles/em/>

  *

    Developing sites for users with Cognitive disabilities and learning
    difficulties <http://juicystudio.com/article/cognitive-impairment.php>

  *

    RDFA Primer <http://www.w3.org/TR/2007/WD-xhtml-rdfa-primer-20071026/>

  *

    MULTIFUNK: Bringing computer-supported reading one step further
    <http://publications.nr.no/Multifunk-NR-rapport.pdf>, Date: April
    2002, ISBN: 82-539-0491-6, Author: Gjertrud W. Kamstrup, Eva Mjøvik,
    Anne-Lise Rygvold og Bjørn Gunnar Saltnes

  *

    Effective Monitor Display Design <http://eric.ed.gov/?id=EJ601947>
    on the ERIC Web portal

  *

    Cognitive difficulties and access to information systems - an
    interaction design perspective
    <http://www.sigaccess.org/2005/09/september-2005-newsletter/>",
    Peter Gregor and Anna Dickinson, Applied Computing, University of
    Dundee

  *

    Legge, G.E., Pelli, D.G., Rubin, G.S., & Schleske,
    M.M.:Psychophysics of reading. I. Normal Vision,Vision Research, 25,
    239-252, 1985.

  *

    Legge, G.E., Rubin, G.S., Pelli, D.G., & Schleske,
    M.M.:Psychophysics of reading. II. Low Vision,Vision Research, 25,
    253-266, 1985.

  *

    Osaka,N. and Oda, K. (1991). Effective visual field size necessary
    for vertical reading during Japanese text processing. Bulletin of
    Psychonomic Society,29(4),345-347.

  *

    Beckmann, P.J. & Legge, G.E. (1996). Psychophysics of reading. XIV.
    The page-navigation problem in using magnifiers. Vision Research,
    36, 3723-3733.

  *

    川嶋英嗣・小田浩一(2003).読書におけるスクロール方向とウィンドウ幅の
    影響　日本心理学会第67回大会, 502.

  *

    小田浩一・今橋真理子(1995). 文字認知の閾値と読みの閾値. VISION, 7,
    165-168.

  *

    Osaka,N. (1994). Size of saccade and fixation duration of eye
    movements during reading: psychophysics of Japanese text processing.
    Journal of Optical Society of America A, 9(1), 5-13.

  *

    山中今日子・小田浩一 (2007). 漢字の画数と書体のウェイトが視認性に及
    ぼす 影響. 視覚学会2007年夏季大会ポスター 1p1 Vision, P.167.

  *

    Line Length, Volume, and Density <http://paul-m-jones.com/archives/276>

  *

    Guidance on accessible publishing
    <http://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20130812104657/http://odi.dwp.gov.uk/inclusive-communications/channels/publishing.php>


  *

    An Accessibility Frontier: Cognitive disabilities and learning
    difficulties
    <http://usability.com.au/2004/12/an-accessibility-frontier-cognitive-disabilities-and-learning-difficulties-2004/>


  *

    Cognitive/Perceptual Difference And Good Web Design
    <http://leftbrainrightbrain.co.uk/2005/03/08/cognitiveperceptual-difference-and-good-web-design/>


  *

    6 Surprising Bad Practices That Hurt Dyslexic Users
    <http://uxmovement.com/content/6-surprising-bad-practices-that-hurt-dyslexic-users/>


  *

    Design for Dyslexics
    <http://accessites.org/site/2006/11/designing-for-dyslexics-part-3-of-3>


  *

    Web Design for Dyslexia <http://www.dyslexia.com/library/webdesign.htm>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.8 - Visual
      Presentation

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions: * Since this is a multi-part success criterion, you must
satisfy one of the numbered items for each of the requirements below.


          First Requirement: Techniques to ensure foreground and
          background colors can be selected by the user

 1.

    C23: Specifying text and background colors of secondary content such
    as banners, features and navigation in CSS while not specifying text
    and background colors of the main content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C23> (CSS) OR

 2.

    C25: Specifying borders and layout in CSS to delineate areas of a
    Web page while not specifying text and text-background colors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C25> (CSS) OR

 3.

    G156: Using a technology that has commonly-available user agents
    that can change the foreground and background of blocks of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G156> OR

 4.

    G148: Not specifying background color, not specifying text color,
    and not using technology features that change those defaults
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G148> OR

 5.

    G175: Providing a multi color selection tool on the page for
    foreground and background colors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G175>


          Second Requirement: Techniques to ensure width is no more than
          80 characters or glyphs (40 if CJK)

 1.

    G204: Not interfering with the user agent's reflow of text as the
    viewing window is narrowed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G204> OR

 2.

    C20: Using relative measurements to set column widths so that lines
    can average 80 characters or less when the browser is resized
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C20> (CSS)


          Third Requirement: Techniques to ensure text is not justified
          (aligned to both the left and the right margins)

 1.

    C19: Specifying alignment either to the left OR right in CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C19> (CSS) OR

 2.

    G172: Providing a mechanism to remove full justification of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G172> OR

 3.

    G169: Aligning text on only one side
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G169>


          Fourth Requirement: Techniques to ensure line spacing
          (leading) is at least space-and-a-half within paragraphs, and
          paragraph spacing is at least 1.5 times larger than the line
          spacing

 1.

    G188: Providing a button on the page to increase line spaces and
    paragraph spaces
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G188> OR

 2.

    C21: Specifying line spacing in CSS
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C21> (CSS)


          Fifth Requirement: Techniques to ensure text can be resized
          without assistive technology up to 200 percent in a way that
          does not require the user to scroll horizontally to read a
          line of text on a full-screen window

 1.

    Not interfering with the user agent's reflow of text as the viewing
    window is narrowed (General, Future Link) OR

 2.

    G146: Using liquid layout
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G146> /AND/
    using measurements that are relative to other measurements in the
    content by using one or more of the following techniques:

      *

        C12: Using percent for font sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C12> (CSS) OR

      *

        C13: Using named font sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C13> (CSS) OR

      *

        C14: Using em units for font sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C14> (CSS) OR

      *

        C24: Using percentage values in CSS for container sizes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C24> (CSS) OR

      *

        FLASH33: Using relative values for Flash object dimensions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH33>
        (Flash)

      *

        SCR34: Calculating size and position in a way that scales with
        text size
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR34>
        (Scripting) OR

 3.

    G206: Providing options within the content to switch to a layout
    that does not require the user to scroll horizontally to read a line
    of text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G206>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.8

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using a hover effect to highlight a paragraph, list items, or table
    cells (CSS) (future link)

  *

    Presenting text in sans serif font or providing a mechanism to
    achieve this (CSS) (future link)

  *

    Using vertical (bulleted or numbered) lists rather than inline lists
    (future link)

  *

    Using upper and lower case according to the spelling conventions of
    the text language (future link)

  *

    Providing large fonts by default (future link)

  *

    Avoiding the use of text in raster images (future link)

  *

    Avoiding scaling font sizes smaller than the user-agent default
    (future link)

  *

    Providing sufficient inter-column spacing (future link)

  *

    Avoiding centrally aligned text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding chunks of italic text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding overuse of different styles on individual pages and in
    sites (future link)

  *

    Making links visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Providing expandable bullets (future link)

  *

    Show/hide bullet points (future link)

  *

    Putting an em-space or two spaces after sentences (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.8

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.8 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F24: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.3, 1.4.6 and 1.4.8 due to
    specifying foreground colors without specifying background colors or
    vice versa <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F24>

  *

    F88: Failure of Success Criterion 1.4.8 due to using text that is
    justified (aligned to both the left and the right margins)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F88>


      Key Terms

blocks of text

    more than one sentence of text

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

on a full-screen window

    on the most common sized desktop/laptop display with the viewport
    maximized

    /Note: /Since people generally keep their computers for several
    years, it is best not to rely on the latest desktop/laptop display
    resolutions but to consider the common desktop/laptop display
    resolutions over the course of several years when making this
    evaluation.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Images of Text (No Exception)*:
    Understanding SC 1.4.9

    *1.4.9
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#visual-audio-contrast-text-images>
    Images of Text (No Exception):* Images of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#images-of-textdef>
    are only used for pure decoration
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#puredecdef> or where
    a particular presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> is
    essential
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef> to the
    information being conveyed. (Level AAA)

    /Note: /Logotypes (text that is part of a logo or brand name) are
    considered essential.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to enable people who require a
particular visual presentation of text to be able to adjust the text
presentation as required. This includes people who require the text in a
particular font size, foreground and background color, font family, line
spacing or alignment.

This means implementing the text in a manner that allows its
presentation to be changed or providing a mechanism by which users can
select an alternate presentation. Using images of text is an example of
an implementation that does not allow users to alter the presentation of
the text within it.

In some situations, a particular visual presentation of the text is
essential to the information being conveyed. This means that information
would be lost without that particular visual presentation. In this case
implementing the text in a manner that allows its presentation to be
changed is not required. This includes text that demonstrates a
particular visual aspect of the text, such as a particular font family,
or text that conveys an identity, such as text within a company logo.

Text that is decorative does not require implementing the text in a
manner that allows its presentation to be changed.

The definition of image of text contains the note: "Note: This does not
include text that is part of a picture that contains significant other
visual content." Examples of such pictures include graphs, screenshots,
and diagrams which visually convey important information through more
than just text.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 1.4.9

  *

    People with low vision (who may have trouble reading the text with
    the authored font family, size and/or color).

  *

    People with visual tracking problems (who may have trouble reading
    the text with the authored line spacing and/or alignment).

  *

    People with cognitive disabilities that affect reading.


      Examples of Success Criterion 1.4.9

  *

    *A quote*

    A Web page contains a quote. The quote itself is presented as
    italicized text, indented from the left margin. The name of the
    person to whom the quote is attributed is below the quote with 1.5x
    the line space and further indented from the left margin. CSS is
    used to position the text; set the spacing between lines; as well as
    display the text's font family, size, color and decoration.

  *

    *Navigation items*

    A Web page contains a menu of navigation links that have both an
    icon and text to describe their target. CSS is used to display the
    text's font family, size and foreground and background colors; as
    well as the spacing between the navigation links.

  *

    *A logo containing text*

    A Web site contains the organization's logo in the top left corner
    of each Web page. The logo contains logotype (text as part, or all,
    of the logo). The visual presentation of the text is essential to
    the identity of the logo and is included as a gif image which does
    not allow the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a
    text alternative.

  *

    *Representation of a font family*

    A Web page contains information about a particular font family.
    Substituting the font family with another font would defeat the
    purpose of the representation. The representation is included as a
    jpeg image which does not allow the text characteristics to be
    changed. The image has a text alternative.

  *

    *A representation of a letter*

    A Web page contains a representation of an original letter. The
    depiction of the letter in its original format is essential to
    information being conveyed about the time period in which it was
    written. The letter is included as a gif image which does not allow
    the text characteristics to be changed. The image has a text
    alternative.

  *

    *Symbolic text characters*

    A form allows users to enter blocks of text. The form provides a
    number of buttons, including functions to style the text and check
    spelling. Some of the buttons use text characters that do not form a
    sequence that expresses something in human language. For example "B"
    to increase font weight, "I" to italicize the text and "ABC" to
    check the spelling. The symbolic text characters are included as gif
    images which do not allow the text characteristics to be changed.
    The buttons have text alternatives.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    CSS Web fonts <http://alistapart.com/article/cssatten>

  *

    Weblog comments: WebKit now supports CSS @font-face rules
    <http://clagnut.com/blog/2042/>

  *

    Creating Cross Browser Compatible CSS Text Shadows
    <http://www.workingwith.me.uk/articles/css/cross-browser-drop-shadows>

  *

    CSS and text <http://www.yourhtmlsource.com/stylesheets/csstext.html>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 1.4.9 - Images of
      Text (No Exception)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    C22: Using CSS to control visual presentation of text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C22> (CSS)

 2.

    SL31: Using Silverlight Font Properties to Control Text Presentation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL31>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    C30: Using CSS to replace text with images of text and providing
    user interface controls to switch
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C30> (CSS)

 4.

    G140: Separating information and structure from presentation to
    enable different presentations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G140>

 5.

    PDF7: Performing OCR on a scanned PDF document to provide actual
    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF7> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 1.4.9

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.


          General Techniques for Non-Decorative Content

  *

    Using server-side scripts to resize images of text (future link)


          CSS Techniques

  *

    C12: Using percent for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C12> (CSS)

  *

    C13: Using named font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C13> (CSS)

  *

    C14: Using em units for font sizes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C14> (CSS)

  *

    C8: Using CSS letter-spacing to control spacing within a word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C8> (CSS)

  *

    C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C6> (CSS)

  *

    Avoid applying text styling to text characters within a word (future
    link)


        Common Failures for SC 1.4.9

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 1.4.9 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

image of text

    text that has been rendered in a non-text form (e.g., an image) in
    order to achieve a particular visual effect

    /Note: /This does not include text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> that is
    part of a picture that contains significant other visual content.

    /Example: /A person's name on a nametag in a photograph.

pure decoration

    serving only an aesthetic purpose, providing no information, and
    having no functionality

    /Note: /Text is only purely decorative if the words can be
    rearranged or substituted without changing their purpose.

    /Example: /The cover page of a dictionary has random words in very
    light text in the background.

text

    sequence of characters that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>,
    where the sequence is expressing something in human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Keyboard Accessible*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.1

    *Guideline 2.1: * Make all functionality available from a keyboard.


      Intent of Guideline 2.1

If all functionality
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#functiondef> can be
achieved using the keyboard, it can be accomplished by keyboard users,
by speech input (which creates keyboard input), by mouse (using
on-screen keyboards), and by a wide variety of assistive technologies
that create simulated keystrokes as their output. No other input form
has this flexibility or is universally supported and operable by people
with different disabilities, as long as the keyboard input is not
time-dependent.

Note that providing universal keyboard input does not mean that other
types of input should not be supported. Optimized speech input,
optimized mouse/pointer input, etc., are also good. The key is to
provide keyboard input and control as well.

Some devices do not have native keyboards—for example, a PDA or cell
phone. If these devices have a Web browsing capability, however, they
will have some means of generating text or "keystrokes". This guideline
uses the term "keyboard interface
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>" to
acknowledge that Web content should be controlled from keystrokes that
may come from a keyboard, keyboard emulator, or other hardware or
software that generates keyboard or text input.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.1 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  * All advisory techniques for this guideline relate to specific
    success criteria.


    *Keyboard*:
    Understanding SC 2.1.1

    *2.1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable>
    Keyboard:* All functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#functiondef> of the
    content is operable through a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>
    without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes, except
    where the underlying function requires input that depends on the
    path of the user's movement and not just the endpoints. (Level A)

    /Note 1: /This exception relates to the underlying function, not the
    input technique. For example, if using handwriting to enter text,
    the input technique (handwriting) requires path-dependent input but
    the underlying function (text input) does not.

    /Note 2: /This does not forbid and should not discourage providing
    mouse input or other input methods in addition to keyboard operation.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that, wherever
possible, content can be operated through a keyboard or keyboard
interface (so an alternate keyboard can be used). When content can be
operated through a keyboard or alternate keyboard, it is operable by
people with no vision (who cannot use devices such as mice that require
eye-hand coordination) as well as by people who must use alternate
keyboards or input devices that act as keyboard emulators. Keyboard
emulators include speech input software, sip-and-puff software,
on-screen keyboards, scanning software and a variety of assistive
technologies and alternate keyboards. Individuals with low vision also
may have trouble tracking a pointer and find the use of software much
easier (or only possible) if they can control it from the keyboard.

Examples of "specific timings for individual keystrokes" include
situations where a user would be required to repeat or execute multiple
keystrokes within a short period of time or where a key must be held
down for an extended period before the keystroke is registered.

The phrase "except where the underlying function requires input that
depends on the path of the user's movement and not just the endpoints"
is included to separate those things that cannot reasonably be
controlled from a keyboard.

Most actions carried out by a pointing device can also be done from the
keyboard (for example, clicking, selecting, moving, sizing). However,
there is a small class of input that is done with a pointing device that
cannot be done from the keyboard in any known fashion without requiring
an inordinate number of keystrokes. Free hand drawing, watercolor
painting, and flying a helicopter through an obstacle course are all
examples of functions that require path dependent input. Drawing
straight lines, regular geometric shapes, re-sizing windows and dragging
objects to a location (when the path to that location is not relevant)
do not require path dependent input.

The use of MouseKeys would not satisfy this Success Criterion because it
is not a keyboard equivalent to the application; it is a mouse
equivalent (i.e., it looks like a mouse to the application).

It is assumed that the design of user input features takes into account
that operating system keyboard accessibility features may be in use. For
example, modifier key locking may be turned on. Content continues to
function in such an environment, not sending events that would collide
with the modifier key lock to produce unexpected results.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.1.1

  *

    People who are blind (who cannot use devices such as mice that
    require eye-hand coordination)

  *

    People with low vision (who may have trouble finding or tracking a
    pointer indicator on screen)

  *

    Some people with hand tremors find using a mouse very difficult and
    therefore usually use a keyboard


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.1.1

  *

    *Example 1: A drawing Program.*

    A drawing program allows users to create, size, position and rotate
    objects from the keyboard.

  *

    *Example 2: A drag and Drop Feature.*

    An application that uses drag and drop also supports "cut" and
    "paste" or form controls to move objects.

  *

    *Example 3: Moving between and connecting discrete points.*

    A connect-the-dots program allows the user to move between dots on a
    screen and use the spacebar to connect the current dot to the
    previous one.

  *

    *Example 4: Exception - Painting Program.*

    A watercolor painting program passes as an exception because the
    brush strokes vary depending on the speed and duration of the movements.

  *

    *Example 5: Exception - Model helicopter flight training simulator.*

    A model helicopter flight training simulator passes as an exception
    because the nature of the simulator is to teach real-time behavior
    of a model helicopter.

  *

    *Example 6: A PDA with an optional keyboard*

    A PDA device that is usually operated via a stylus has an optional
    keyboard that can be attached. The keyboard allows full Web browsing
    in standard fashion. The Web content is operable because it was
    designed to work with keyboard-only access.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.1.1 - Keyboard

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G202: Ensuring keyboard control for all functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G202>

 2.

    Ensuring keyboard control by using one of the following techniques.

      *

        H91: Using HTML form controls and links
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H91> (HTML)

      *

        PDF3: Ensuring correct tab and reading order in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF3> (PDF)

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the Link annotation
        and the /Link structure element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF23: Providing interactive form controls in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF23> (PDF)

      *

        SL15: Providing Keyboard Shortcuts that Work Across the Entire
        Silverlight Application
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL15>
        (Silverlight)

 3.

    G90: Providing keyboard-triggered event handlers
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G90> using one
    of the following techniques:

      *

        SCR20: Using both keyboard and other device-specific functions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR20>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR35: Making actions keyboard accessible by using the onclick
        event of anchors and buttons
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR35>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR2: Using redundant keyboard and mouse event handlers
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR2>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SL9: Handling Key Events to Enable Keyboard Functionality in
        Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL9>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL14: Providing Custom Control Key Handling for Keyboard
        Functionality in Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL14>
        (Silverlight)

 4.

    FLASH17: Providing keyboard access to a Flash object and avoiding a
    keyboard trap
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH17>
    (Flash) *AND* using the following techniques as applicable:

      *

        FLASH22: Adding keyboard-accessible actions to static elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH22>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH16: Making actions keyboard accessible by using the click
        event on standard components
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH16>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH14: Using redundant keyboard and mouse event handlers in
        Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH14>
        (Flash)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.1.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using XHTML role, state, and value attributes if repurposing static
    elements as interactive user interface components (future link) AND
    SCR29: Adding keyboard-accessible actions to static HTML elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR29>
    (Scripting)

  *

    Providing keyboard shortcuts to important links and form controls
    (future link)

  *

    Using unique letter combinations to begin each item of a list
    (future link)

  *

    Choosing the most abstract event handler (future link) (Scripting)

  *

    Using the onactivate event (future link) (Scripting)

  *

    Avoiding use of common user-agent keyboard commands for other
    purposes (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.1.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.1.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F54: Failure of Success Criterion 2.1.1 due to using only
    pointing-device-specific event handlers (including gesture) for a
    function <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F54>

  *

    F55: Failure of Success Criteria 2.1.1, 2.4.7, and 3.2.1 due to
    using script to remove focus when focus is received
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F55>

  *

    F42: Failure of Success Criteria 1.3.1, 2.1.1, 2.1.3, or 4.1.2 when
    emulating links
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F42>


      Key Terms

functionality

    processes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef> and
    outcomes achievable through user action

keyboard interface

    interface used by software to obtain keystroke input

    /Note 1: /A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke
    input to programs even if the native technology does not contain a
    keyboard.

    /Example: /A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its
    operating system as well as a connector for external keyboards.
    Applications on the PDA can use the interface to obtain keyboard
    input either from an external keyboard or from other applications
    that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting
    interpreters or speech-to-text applications with "keyboard
    emulation" functionality.

    /Note 2: /Operation of the application (or parts of the application)
    through a keyboard-operated mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does
    not qualify as operation through a keyboard interface because
    operation of the program is through its pointing device interface,
    not through its keyboard interface.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *No Keyboard Trap*:
    Understanding SC 2.1.2

    *2.1.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keyboard-operation-trapping>
    No Keyboard Trap:* If keyboard focus can be moved to a component of
    the page using a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>, then
    focus can be moved away from that component using only a keyboard
    interface, and, if it requires more than unmodified arrow or tab
    keys or other standard exit methods, the user is advised of the
    method for moving focus away. (Level A)

    /Note: /Since any content that does not meet this success criterion
    can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all
    content on the Web page (whether it is used to meet other success
    criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See /Conformance
    Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that that content does
not "trap" keyboard focus within subsections of content on a Web page.
This is a common problem when multiple formats are combined within a
page and rendered using plug-ins or embedded applications.

There may be times when the functionality of the Web page restricts the
focus to a subsection of the content, as long as the user knows how to
leave that state and "untrap" the focus.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.1.2

  *

    People who rely on a keyboard or keyboard interface to use the Web
    including people who are blind and people with physical disabilities.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.1.2

  *

    *A calendar widget*

    A calendar widget allows users to add, remove or update items in
    their calendar using the keyboard. The controls in the widget are
    part of the tab order within the Web page, allowing users to tab
    through the controls in the widget as well as to any links or
    controls that follow.

  *

    *A puzzle applet*

    Once a user tabs into an applet, further tabs and other keystrokes
    are handled by the applet. Instructions describing the keystroke
    used to exit the applet are provided prior to the applet as well as
    within the applet itself.

  *

    *A modal dialog box*

    A Web application brings up a dialog box. At the bottom of the
    dialog are two buttons, Cancel and OK. When the dialog has been
    opened, focus is trapped within the dialog; tabbing from the last
    control in the dialog takes focus to the first control in the
    dialog. The dialog is dismissed by activating the Cancel button or
    the OK button.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.1.2 - No Keyboard Trap

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G21: Ensuring that users are not trapped in content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G21>

 2.

    FLASH17: Providing keyboard access to a Flash object and avoiding a
    keyboard trap
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH17> (Flash)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.1.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.1.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.1.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F10: Failure of Success Criterion 2.1.2 and Conformance Requirement
    5 due to combining multiple content formats in a way that traps
    users inside one format type
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F10>


      Key Terms

keyboard interface

    interface used by software to obtain keystroke input

    /Note 1: /A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke
    input to programs even if the native technology does not contain a
    keyboard.

    /Example: /A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its
    operating system as well as a connector for external keyboards.
    Applications on the PDA can use the interface to obtain keyboard
    input either from an external keyboard or from other applications
    that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting
    interpreters or speech-to-text applications with "keyboard
    emulation" functionality.

    /Note 2: /Operation of the application (or parts of the application)
    through a keyboard-operated mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does
    not qualify as operation through a keyboard interface because
    operation of the program is through its pointing device interface,
    not through its keyboard interface.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Keyboard (No Exception)*:
    Understanding SC 2.1.3

    *2.1.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keyboard-operation-all-funcs>
    Keyboard (No Exception):* All functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#functiondef> of the
    content is operable through a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>
    without requiring specific timings for individual keystrokes. (Level
    AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that *all* content is
operable from the keyboard. This is the same as Success Criterion 2.1.1,
except that no exceptions are allowed. This does not mean that content
where the underlying function requires input that depends on the path of
the user's movement and not just the endpoints (excluded from the
requirements of 2.1.1) must be made keyboard accessible. Rather, it
means that content that uses path-dependent input cannot conform to this
Success Criterion and therefore cannot meet Guideline 2.1 at Level AAA.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.1.3

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.1.3 - Keyboard (No
      Exception)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

No additional techniques exist for this Success Criterion. Follow
techniques for Success Criterion 2.1.1
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable.html#keyboard-operation-keyboard-operable-techniques-head>.
If that is not possible because there is a requirement for
path-dependent input, then it is not possible to meet this Level AAA
Success Criterion.


      Key Terms

functionality

    processes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef> and
    outcomes achievable through user action

keyboard interface

    interface used by software to obtain keystroke input

    /Note 1: /A keyboard interface allows users to provide keystroke
    input to programs even if the native technology does not contain a
    keyboard.

    /Example: /A touchscreen PDA has a keyboard interface built into its
    operating system as well as a connector for external keyboards.
    Applications on the PDA can use the interface to obtain keyboard
    input either from an external keyboard or from other applications
    that provide simulated keyboard output, such as handwriting
    interpreters or speech-to-text applications with "keyboard
    emulation" functionality.

    /Note 2: /Operation of the application (or parts of the application)
    through a keyboard-operated mouse emulator, such as MouseKeys, does
    not qualify as operation through a keyboard interface because
    operation of the program is through its pointing device interface,
    not through its keyboard interface.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Enough Time*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.2

    *Guideline 2.2: * Provide users enough time to read and use content.


      Intent of Guideline 2.2

Many users who have disabilities need more time to complete tasks than
the majority of users: they may take longer to physically respond, they
may take longer to read things, they may have low vision and take longer
to find things or to read them, or they may be accessing content through
an assistive technology that requires more time. This guideline focuses
on ensuring that users are able to complete the tasks required by the
content with their own individual response times. The primary approaches
deal with eliminating time constraints or providing users enough
additional time to allow them to complete their tasks. Exceptions are
provided for those cases where this is not possible.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.2 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  * All advisory techniques for this guideline relate to specific
    success criteria.


    *Timing Adjustable*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.1

    *2.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-required-behaviors>
    Timing Adjustable:* For each time limit that is set by the content,
    at least one of the following is true: (Level A)

      *

        *Turn off: *The user is allowed to turn off the time limit
        before encountering it; or

      *

        *Adjust: *The user is allowed to adjust the time limit before
        encountering it over a wide range that is at least ten times the
        length of the default setting; or

      *

        *Extend: *The user is warned before time expires and given at
        least 20 seconds to extend the time limit with a simple action
        (for example, "press the space bar"), and the user is allowed to
        extend the time limit at least ten times; or

      *

        *Real-time Exception: *The time limit is a required part of a
        real-time event (for example, an auction), and no alternative to
        the time limit is possible; or

      *

        *Essential Exception: *The time limit is essential
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef>
        and extending it would invalidate the activity; or

      *

        *20 Hour Exception: *The time limit is longer than 20 hours.

    /Note: /This success criterion helps ensure that users can complete
    tasks without unexpected changes in content or context that are a
    result of a time limit. This success criterion should be considered
    in conjunction with Success Criterion 3.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-receive-focus>,
    which puts limits on changes of content or context as a result of
    user action.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users with
disabilities are given adequate time to interact with Web content
whenever possible. People with disabilities such as blindness, low
vision, dexterity impairments, and cognitive limitations may require
more time to read content or to perform functions such as filling out
on-line forms. If Web functions are time-dependent, it will be difficult
for some users to perform the required action before a time limit
occurs. This may render the service inaccessible to them. Designing
functions that are not time-dependent will help people with disabilities
succeed at completing these functions. Providing options to disable time
limits, customize the length of time limits, or request more time before
a time limit occurs helps those users who require more time than
expected to successfully complete tasks. These options are listed in the
order that will be most helpful for the user. Disabling time limits is
better than customizing the length of time limits, which is better than
requesting more time before a time limit occurs.

Any process that happens without user initiation after a set time or on
a periodic basis is a time limit. This includes partial or full updates
of content (for example, page refresh), changes to content, or the
expiration of a window of opportunity for a user to react to a request
for input.

It also includes content that is advancing or updating at a rate beyond
the user's ability to read and/or understand it. In other words,
animated, moving or scrolling content introduces a time limit on a users
ability to read content.

In some cases, however, it is not possible to change the time limit (for
example, for an auction or other real-time event) and exceptions are
therefore provided for those cases.

*Notes regarding server time limits*

  *

    Timed server redirects can be found below under Common Failures.

  *

    Non-timed server redirects (e.g., 3xx response codes) are not
    applicable because there is no time limit: they work instantly.

  *

    This Success Criterion applies only to time limits that are set by
    the content itself. For example, if a time limit is included in
    order to address security concerns, it would be considered to have
    been set by the content because it is designed to be part of the
    presentation and interaction experience for that content. Time
    limits set externally to content, such as by the user agent or by
    factors intrinsic to the Internet are not under the author's control
    and not subject to WCAG conformance requirements. Time limits set by
    Web servers should be under the author's/organization's control and
    are covered. (Success Criteria 2.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-no-exceptions>,
    2.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-postponed>
    and 2.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-server-timeout>
    may also apply.)

  *

    Ten times the default was chosen based on clinical experience and
    other guidelines. For example, if 15 seconds is allowed for a user
    to respond and hit a switch, 150 seconds would be sufficient to
    allow almost all users to hit a switch even if they had trouble.

  *

    20 seconds was also based on clinical experience and other
    guidelines. 20 seconds to hit 'any switch' is sufficient for almost
    all users including those with spasticity. Some would fail, but some
    would fail all lengths of time. A reasonable period for requesting
    more time is required since an arbitrarily long time can provide
    security risks to all users, including those with disabilities, for
    some applications. For example, with kiosks or terminals that are
    used for financial transactions, it is quite common for people to
    walk away without signing off. This leaves them vulnerable to those
    walking up behind them. Providing a long period of inactivity before
    asking, and then providing a long period for the person to indicate
    that they are present can leave terminals open for abuse. If there
    is no activity the system should ask if the user is there. It should
    then ask for an indication that a person is there ('hit any key')
    and then wait long enough for almost anyone to respond. For "hit any
    key," 20 seconds would meet this. If the person indicates that they
    are still present, the device should return the user to the exact
    condition that existed before it asked the question.

  *

    20 hours was chosen as an upper limit because it is longer than a
    full waking day.

In cases where timing is not an intrinsic requirement but giving users
control over timed events would invalidate the outcome, a third party
can control the time limits for the user (for example, granting double
time on a test).

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.3 No Timing
<#time-limits-no-exceptions>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.1

  *

    People with physical disabilities often need more time to react, to
    type and to complete activities. People with low vision need more
    time to locate things on screen and to read. People who are blind
    and using screen readers may need more time to understand screen
    layouts, to find information and to operate controls. People who
    have cognitive or language limitations need more time to read and to
    understand. People who are deaf and communicate in sign language may
    need more time to read information printed in text (which may be a
    second language for some).

  *

    In circumstances where a sign-language interpreter may be relating
    audio content to a user who is deaf, control over time limits is
    also important.

  *

    People with reading disabilities, cognitive limitations, and
    learning disabilities who may need more time to read or comprehend
    information can have additional time to read the information by
    pausing the content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.1

  *

    A Web site uses a client side time limit to help protect users who
    may step away from their computer. After a period of inactivity the
    Web page asks if the user needs more time. If it doesn't get a
    response – it times out.

  *

    A Web page has a field that automatically updates with the latest
    headlines in a rotating fashion. There is an interactive control
    that allows the user to extend the length of time between each
    update to as much as ten times the default. The control can be
    operated with either a mouse or a keyboard.

  *

    A Web page includes an animation which includes text that appears
    and disappears throughout. In some cases, the text is scrolling
    across the screen and in others, it is only displayed for a short
    time before it fades into the background. The page includes a pause
    button so that users who have trouble reading the text before it
    disappears can read it.

  *

    In an auction, there is a time limit on the amount of time a user
    has to submit a bid. Since the time limit applies to all users who
    want to bid on a particular item, it would be unfair to extend the
    time limit for any one particular user. Therefore, a time limit is
    required for this type of activity and no extension, adjustment, or
    deactivation of the time limit is required by this Success Criteria.

  *

    An on-line ticket-purchasing site gives the user two minutes to
    confirm a purchase before the seats are returned to the general
    pool. Because tickets on such sites can sell out quickly, holding a
    ticket longer than that may invalidate the nature of the site, so
    this is a case in which the timing is essential and cannot be
    extended without invalidating the activity. However, the site does
    move as much of the process out of the time-critical period as
    possible, for instance allowing users to provide necessary
    information like name, payment method, etc., before entering the
    time-critical stage.

  *

    A ticket-purchasing site allows the user two minutes to confirm
    purchase of selected seats, but warns the user when their time is
    almost out and allows the user to extend this time limit some number
    of times with a simple action such as clicking a "Extend time limit"
    button.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.1 - Timing
      Adjustable

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If there are session time limits:

 1.

    G133: Providing a checkbox on the first page of a multipart form
    that allows users to ask for longer session time limit or no session
    time limit <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G133>

 2.

    G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G198>


          Situation B: If a time limit is controlled by a script on the
          page:

 1.

    G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G198>

 2.

    G180: Providing the user with a means to set the time limit to 10
    times the default time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G180>

 3.

    SCR16: Providing a script that warns the user a time limit is about
    to expire
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR16>
    (Scripting) *AND* SCR1: Allowing the user to extend the default time
    limit <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR1>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    FLASH19: Providing a script that warns the user a time limit is
    about to expire and provides a way to extend it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH19> (Flash)

 5.

    FLASH24: Allowing the user to extend the default time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH24> (Flash)

 6.

    SL21: Replacing A Silverlight Timed Animation With a Nonanimated
    Element <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL21>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation C: If there are time limits on reading:

 1.

    G4: Allowing the content to be paused and restarted from where it
    was paused <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G4>

 2.

    G198: Providing a way for the user to turn the time limit off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G198>

 3.

    SCR33: Using script to scroll content, and providing a mechanism to
    pause it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR33>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    SCR36: Providing a mechanism to allow users to display moving,
    scrolling, or auto-updating text in a static window or area
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR36>
    (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using a script to poll the server and notify a user if a time limit
    is present (future link) (Scripting)

  *

    Using sounds to focus user's attention (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F40: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1 and 2.2.4 due to using meta
    redirect with a time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F40>

  *

    F41: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to
    using meta refresh to reload the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F41>

  *

    F58: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1 due to using server-side
    techniques to automatically redirect pages after a time-out
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F58>


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Pause, Stop, Hide*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.2

    *2.2.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-pause>
    Pause, Stop, Hide:* For moving, blinking
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blinksdef>,
    scrolling, or auto-updating information, all of the following are
    true: (Level A)

      *

        *Moving, blinking, scrolling: *For any moving, blinking or
        scrolling information that (1) starts automatically, (2) lasts
        more than five seconds, and (3) is presented in parallel with
        other content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#pauseddef>,
        stop, or hide it unless the movement, blinking, or scrolling is
        part of an activity where it is essential
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef>; and

      *

        *Auto-updating: *For any auto-updating information that (1)
        starts automatically and (2) is presented in parallel with other
        content, there is a mechanism for the user to pause, stop, or
        hide it or to control the frequency of the update unless the
        auto-updating is part of an activity where it is essential.

    /Note 1: /For requirements related to flickering or flashing
    content, refer to /Guideline 2.3 <#seizure>/.

    /Note 2: /Since any content that does not meet this success
    criterion can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page,
    all content on the Web page (whether it is used to meet other
    success criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See
    /Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.

    /Note 3: /Content that is updated periodically by software or that
    is streamed to the user agent is not required to preserve or present
    information that is generated or received between the initiation of
    the pause and resuming presentation, as this may not be technically
    possible, and in many situations could be misleading to do so.

    /Note 4: /An animation that occurs as part of a preload phase or
    similar situation can be considered essential if interaction cannot
    occur during that phase for all users and if not indicating progress
    could confuse users or cause them to think that content was frozen
    or broken.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to avoid distracting users
during their interaction with a Web page.

"Moving, blinking and scrolling" refers to content in which the visible
content conveys a sense of motion. Common examples include motion
pictures, synchronized media presentations, animations, real-time games,
and scrolling stock tickers. "Auto-updating" refers to content that
updates or disappears based on a preset time interval. Common time-based
content includes audio, automatically updated weather information, news,
stock price updates, and auto-advancing presentations and messages. The
requirements for moving, blinking and scrolling content and for
auto-updating content are the same except that:

  *

    authors have the option of providing the user with a means to
    control the frequency of updates when content is auto-updating and

  *

    there is no five second exception for auto-updating since it makes
    little sense to auto-update for just three seconds and then stop

Content that moves or auto-updates can be a barrier to anyone who has
trouble reading stationary text quickly as well as anyone who has
trouble tracking moving objects. It can also cause problems for screen
readers.

Moving content can also be a severe distraction for some people. Certain
groups, particularly those with attention deficit disorders, find
blinking content distracting, making it difficult for them to
concentrate on other parts of the Web page. Five seconds was chosen
because it is long enough to get a user's attention, but not so long
that a user cannot wait out the distraction if necessary to use the page.

Content that is paused can either resume in real-time or continue
playing from the point in the presentation where the user left off.

 1.

    Pausing and resuming where the user left off is best for users who
    want to pause to read content and works best when the content is not
    associated with a real-time event or status.

    /Note: /See /Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.1 Timing Adjustable
    <#time-limits-required-behaviors>/ for additional requirements
    related to time-limits for reading.

 2.

    Pausing and jumping to current display (when pause is released) is
    better for information that is real-time or "status" in nature. For
    example, weather radar, a stock ticker, a traffic camera, or an
    auction timer, would present misleading information if a pause
    caused it to display old information when the content was restarted.

    /Note: /Hiding content would have the same result as pausing and
    jumping to current display (when pause is released).

For a mechanism to be considered "a mechanism for the user to pause," it
must provide the user with a means to pause that does not tie up the
user or the focus so that the page cannot be used. The word "pause" here
is meant in the sense of a "pause button" although other mechanisms than
a button can be used. Having an animation stop only so long as a user
has focus on it (where it restarts as soon as the user moves the focus
away) would not be considered a "mechanism for the user to pause"
because it makes the page unusable in the process and would not meet
this SC.

It is important to note that the terms "blinking" and "flashing" can
sometimes refer to the same content.

  *

    "Blinking" refers to content that causes a distraction problem.
    Blinking can be allowed for a short time as long as it stops (or can
    be stopped)

  *

    "Flashing" refers to content that can trigger a seizure (if it is
    more than 3 per second and large and bright enough). This cannot be
    allowed even for a second or it could cause a seizure. And turning
    the flash off is also not an option since the seizure could occur
    faster than most users could turn it off.

  *

    Blinking usually does not occur at speeds of 3 per second or more,
    but it can. If blinking occurs faster than 3 per second, it would
    also be considered a flash.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.2

  *

    Providing content that stops blinking after five seconds or
    providing a mechanism for users to stop blinking content allows
    people with certain disabilities to interact with the Web page.

  *

    One use of content that blinks is to draw the visitor's attention to
    that content. Although this is an effective technique for all users
    with vision, it can be a problem for some users if it persists. For
    certain groups, including people with low literacy, reading and
    intellectual disabilities, and people with attention deficit
    disorders, content that blinks may make it difficult or even
    impossible to interact with the rest of the Web page.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.2

  *

    *An essential animation can be paused without affecting the activity*

    A Web site helps users understand 'how things work' through
    animations that demonstrate processes. Animations have "pause" and
    "restart" buttons.

  *

    *A stock ticker*

    A stock ticker has "pause" and "restart" buttons. Pausing the ticker
    causes it to pause on the currently displayed stock. Restarting
    causes the ticker to resume from the stopped point but with a notice
    that the display is delayed. Since the intent of the stock ticker is
    usually to provide realtime information, there might also be a
    button that would advance the ticker to the most recently traded stock.

  *

    *A game is designed so that users take turns rather than competing
    in real-time*

    One party can pause the game without invalidating the competitive
    aspect of it.

  *

    *A Web advertisement*

    An advertisement blinks to get viewers attention but stops after 5
    seconds

  *

    *A form prompt*

    A form blinks an arrow near the submit button if a user finishes
    filling out the form but does not activate the submit button. The
    blinking stops after 5 seconds.

  *

    *An animation*

    An animation runs in the upper portion of the page but has a "freeze
    animation" button near the bottom of the animation.

  *

    *A "loading" animation*

    A preloader animation is shown on a page which requires a certain
    percentage of a large file to be downloaded before playback can
    begin. The animation is the only content on the page and instructs
    the user to please wait while the video loads. Because the moving
    content is not presented in parallel with other content, no
    mechanism to pause, stop or hide it needs to be provided, even
    though the animation may run for more than 5 seconds for users with
    slower connections.

  *

    *A full-page advertisement*

    A site requires that all users view a 15 second advertisement before
    they can access free content available from their site. Because
    viewing the advertisement is a requirement for all users and because
    it is not presented in parallel with other content, no mechanism to
    pause, stop or hide it needs to be provided.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.2 - Pause, Stop,
      Hide

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G4: Allowing the content to be paused and restarted from where it
    was paused <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G4>

 2.

    SL11: Pausing or Stopping A Decorative Silverlight Animation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL11>
    (Silverlight)

 3.

    SL12: Pausing, Stopping, or Playing Media in Silverlight
    MediaElements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL12>
    (Silverlight)

 4.

    SCR33: Using script to scroll content, and providing a mechanism to
    pause it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR33>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    FLASH35: Using script to scroll Flash content, and providing a
    mechanism to pause it
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH35> (Flash)

 6.

    G11: Creating content that blinks for less than 5 seconds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G11>

 7.

    G187: Using a technology to include blinking content that can be
    turned off via the user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G187>

 8.

    G152: Setting animated gif images to stop blinking after n cycles
    (within 5 seconds)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G152>

 9.

    SCR22: Using scripts to control blinking and stop it in five seconds
    or less <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR22>
    (Scripting)

10.

    FLASH36: Using scripts to control blinking and stop it in five
    seconds or less
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH36> (Flash)

11.

    G186: Using a control in the Web page that stops moving, blinking,
    or auto-updating content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G186>

12.

    G191: Providing a link, button, or other mechanism that reloads the
    page without any blinking content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G191>

13.

    SL24: Using AutoPlay to Keep Silverlight Media from Playing
    Automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL24>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a mechanism to stop all content that blinks within a Web
    page (future link)

  *

    Providing the user with a means to stop moving content even if it
    stops automatically within 5 seconds (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F16: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to including scrolling
    content where movement is not essential to the activity without also
    including a mechanism to pause and restart the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F16>

  *

    F47: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to using the blink
    element <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F47>

  *

    F4: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to using
    text-decoration:blink without a mechanism to stop it in less than
    five seconds <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F4>

  *

    F50: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to a script that causes
    a blink effect without a mechanism to stop the blinking at 5 seconds
    or less <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F50>

  *

    F7: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.2 due to an object or applet,
    such as Java or Flash, that has blinking content without a mechanism
    to pause the content that blinks for more than five seconds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F7>


      Key Terms

blinking

    switch back and forth between two visual states in a way that is
    meant to draw attention

    /Note: /See also flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def>. It is
    possible for something to be large enough and blink brightly enough
    at the right frequency to be also classified as a flash.

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

paused

    stopped by user request and not resumed until requested by user

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *No Timing*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.3

    *2.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-no-exceptions>
    No Timing:* Timing is not an essential
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#essentialdef> part
    of the event or activity presented by the content, except for
    non-interactive synchronized media
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#synchronizedmediadef> and
    real-time events
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#real-time-eventsdef>. (Level
    AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to minimize the occurrence of
content that requires timed interaction. This enables people with
blindness, low vision, cognitive limitations, or motor impairments to
interact with content. This differs from the Level A Success Criterion
in that the only exception is for real-time events.

/Note: /Video only, such as sign language, is covered in Guideline 1.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-equiv>.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.3

  *

    People with physical disabilities often need more time to react, to
    type and to complete activities. People with low vision need more
    time to locate things on screen and to read. People who are blind
    and using screen readers may need more time to understand screen
    layouts, to find information and to operate controls. People who
    have cognitive or language limitations need more time to read and to
    understand. People who are deaf and communicate in sign language may
    need more time to read information printed in text (which may be a
    second language for some).

  *

    In circumstances where a sign-language interpreter may be relating
    audio content to a user who is deaf, control over time limits is
    also important.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.3

  *

    *A test is designed so that time to complete the test does not
    affect the scoring*

    Rather than calibrating an on-line test using a time limit, the test
    is calibrated based on scores when users have no time limits.

  *

    *A game is designed so that users take turns rather than competing
    in real-time*

    One party can pause the game without invalidating the competitive
    aspect of it.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.3 - No Timing

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G5: Allowing users to complete an activity without any time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G5>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

essential

    if removed, would fundamentally change the information or
    functionality of the content, *and* information and functionality
    cannot be achieved in another way that would conform

real-time event

    event that a) occurs at the same time as the viewing and b) is not
    completely generated by the content

    /Example 1: /A Webcast of a live performance (occurs at the same
    time as the viewing and is not prerecorded).

    /Example 2: /An on-line auction with people bidding (occurs at the
    same time as the viewing).

    /Example 3: /Live humans interacting in a virtual world using
    avatars (is not completely generated by the content and occurs at
    the same time as the viewing).

synchronized media

    audio <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#audiodef> or
    video <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#videodef>
    synchronized with another format for presenting information and/or
    with time-based interactive components, unless the media is a media
    alternative for text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#multimedia-alt-textdef>
    that is clearly labeled as such

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Interruptions*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.4

    *2.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-postponed>
    Interruptions:* Interruptions can be postponed or suppressed by the
    user, except interruptions involving an emergency
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#emergencydef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow users to turn off
updates from the author/server except in emergencies. Emergencies would
include civil emergency alert messages or any other messages that warn
of danger to health, safety, or property, including data loss, loss of
connection, etcetera.

This allows access by people with cognitive limitations or attention
disorders by enabling them to focus on the content. It also allows users
who are blind or have low vision to keep their "viewing" focus on the
content they are currently reading.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.4

  *

    Individuals with attention deficit disorders can focus on content
    without distraction.

  *

    Individuals with low vision or who use screen readers will not have
    content updated while they are viewing it (which can lead to
    discontinuity and misunderstanding if they start reading in one
    topic and finish in another).


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.4

  *

    *Example 1. Setting user preferences*

    The preferences page of a Web portal includes an option to postpone
    all updates and alerts until the end of the current session, except
    for alerts concerning emergencies.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.4 - Interruptions

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G75: Providing a mechanism to postpone any updating of content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G75>

 2.

    G76: Providing a mechanism to request an update of the content
    instead of updating automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G76>

 3.

    SCR14: Using scripts to make nonessential alerts optional
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR14>
    (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F40: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1 and 2.2.4 due to using meta
    redirect with a time limit
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F40>

  *

    F41: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to
    using meta refresh to reload the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F41>


      Key Terms

emergency

    a sudden, unexpected situation or occurrence that requires immediate
    action to preserve health, safety, or property

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Re-authenticating*:
    Understanding SC 2.2.5

    *2.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#time-limits-server-timeout>
    Re-authenticating:* When an authenticated session expires, the user
    can continue the activity without loss of data after
    re-authenticating. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow all users to complete
authenticated transactions that have inactivity time limits or other
circumstances that would cause a user to be logged out while in the
midst of completing the transaction.

For security reasons, many sites implement an authentication time limit
after a certain period of inactivity. These time limits may cause
problems for persons with disabilities because it may take longer for
them to complete the activity.

Other sites will log a person out of a session if a person logs in on
the Web site from another computer or if other activities arise that
make the site suspicious of whether the person is still the same
legitimate person who logged in originally. When users are logged out
while still in the midst of a transaction - it is important that they be
given the ability to re-authenticate and continue with the transaction
without the loss of any data already entered.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.2.5

  *

    This Success Criterion benefits people who may require additional
    time to complete an activity. People with cognitive limitations may
    read slowly and require additional time to read and respond to a
    questionnaire. Users interacting via a screen reader may need extra
    time to navigate and complete a complicated form. A person with
    motor impairments or who navigates with an alternative input device
    may require additional time to navigate through or complete input
    within a form.

  *

    In circumstances where a sign-language interpreter may be relating
    audio content to a user who is deaf, control over time limits is
    also important.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.2.5

  *

    *A shopping site checkout*

    A user with extremely limited use of the hands is logged into a
    shopping site. It takes so long to enter credit card information
    into the application that a time limit occurs while the user is
    performing the checkout process. When the user returns to the
    checkout process and submits the form, the site returns a login
    screen to re-authenticate. After the user logs in, the check out
    process is restored with the same information and at the same stage.
    The user did not lose any data because the server had temporarily
    accepted and stored the submission even though the session had timed
    out and restored the user to the same state after re-authentication
    was completed.

  *

    *Authentication in an email program*

    An email program has an authentication time-out after 30 minutes.
    The program prompts the user several minutes before the time-out
    occurs and provides a link to open a new window in order to
    re-authenticate. The original window with the in-progress email
    remains intact and, after re-authentication, the user may send that
    data.

  *

    *A questionnaire with a time limit *

    A long questionnaire provided within a single Web page has
    information at the beginning that indicates that the session will
    time out after 15 minutes. The user is also informed that the
    questionnaire can be saved at any point and completed at a later
    time. Within the Web page there are several buttons provided to save
    the partially completed form. In addition, with JavaScript in the
    list of accessibility-supported content technologies that are relied
    upon, the user can elect to be alerted via a pop-up if the session
    is close to timing out.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.2.5 -
      Re-authenticating

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Providing options to continue without loss of data using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G105: Saving data so that it can be used after a user
        re-authenticates
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G105>

      *

        G181: Encoding user data as hidden or encrypted data in a
        re-authorization page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G181>

/Note: /Refer to Techniques for Addressing Success Criterion 2.2.1
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/time-limits-required-behaviors.html#time-limits-required-behaviors-techniques-head>
for techniques related to providing notifications about time limits.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.2.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 2.2.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.2.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F12: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.5 due to having a session time
    limit without a mechanism for saving user's input and
    re-establishing that information upon re-authentication
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F12>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Seizures*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.3

    *Guideline 2.3: *Do not design content in a way that is known to
    cause seizures.


      Intent of Guideline 2.3

Some people with seizure disorders can have a seizure triggered by
flashing visual content. Most people are unaware that they have this
disorder until it strikes. In 1997, a cartoon on television in Japan
sent over 700 children to the hospital, including about 500 who had
seizures. Warnings do not work well because they are often missed,
especially by children who may in fact not be able to read them.

The objective of this guideline is to ensure that content that is marked
as conforming to WCAG 2.0 avoids the types of flash that are most likely
to cause seizure when viewed even for a second or two.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.3 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Ensuring that content does not violate spatial pattern thresholds
    (future link)


    *Three Flashes or Below Threshold*:
    Understanding SC 2.3.1

    *2.3.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#seizure-does-not-violate>
    Three Flashes or Below Threshold:* Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> do not
    contain anything that flashes more than three times in any one
    second period, or the flash
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def> is below
    the general flash and red flash thresholds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#general-thresholddef>.
    (Level A)

    /Note: /Since any content that does not meet this success criterion
    can interfere with a user's ability to use the whole page, all
    content on the Web page (whether it is used to meet other success
    criteria or not) must meet this success criterion. See /Conformance
    Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow users to access the
full content of a site without inducing seizures due to photosensitivity.

Individuals who have photosensitive seizure disorders can have a seizure
triggered by content that flashes at certain frequencies for more than a
few flashes. People are even more sensitive to red flashing than to
other colors, so a special test is provided for saturated red flashing.
These guidelines are based on guidelines for the broadcasting industry
as adapted for computer screens, where content is viewed from a closer
distance (using a larger angle of vision).

Flashing can be caused by the display, the computer rendering the image
or by the content being rendered. The author has no control of the first
two. They can be addressed by the design and speed of the display and
computer. The intent of this criterion is to ensure that flicker that
violates the flash thresholds is not caused by the content itself. For
example, the content could contain a video clip or animated image of a
series of strobe flashes, or close-ups of rapid-fire explosions.

This Success Criterion replaces a much more restrictive criterion in
WCAG 1.0 that did not allow any flashing (even of a single pixel) within
a broad frequency range (3 to 50 Hz). This Success Criterion is based on
existing specifications in use in the UK and by others for television
broadcast and has been adapted for computer display viewing. The 1024 x
768 screen is used as the reference screen resolution for the
evaluation. The 341 x 256 pixel block represents a 10 degree viewport at
a typical viewing distance. (The 10 degree field is taken from the
original specifications and represents the central vision portion of the
eye, where people are most susceptible to photo stimuli.)

The combined area of flashes occurring concurrently and contiguously
means the total area that is actually flashing at the same time. It is
calculated by adding up the contiguous area that is flashing
simultaneously within any 10 degree angle of view.

/Note: /The terms "blinking" and "flashing" can sometimes refer to the
same content.

  *

    "Blinking" refers to content that causes a distraction problem.
    Blinking can be allowed for a short time as long as it stops (or can
    be stopped)

  *

    "Flashing" refers to content that can trigger a seizure (if it is
    more than 3 per second and large and bright enough). This cannot be
    allowed even for a second or it could cause a seizure. And turning
    the flash off is also not an option since the seizure could occur
    faster than most users could turn it off.

  *

    Blinking usually does not occur at speeds of 3 per second or more,
    but it can. If blinking occurs faster than 3 per second, it would
    also be considered a flash.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.3.1

  *

    Individuals who have seizures when viewing flashing material will be
    able to view all of the material on a site without having a seizure
    and without having to miss the full experience of the content by
    being limited to text alternatives. This includes people with
    photosensitive epilepsy as well as other photosensitive seizure
    disorders.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.3.1

  *

    A Web site has video of muzzle flash of machine gun fire, but limits
    the size of the flashing image to a small portion of the screen
    below the flash threshold size.

  *

    A movie with a scene involving very bright lightning flashes is
    edited so that the lightning only flashes three times in any one
    second period.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Harding FPA Web Site <http://www.hardingfpa.com/>

  *

    Trace Center Photosensitive Epilepsy Analysis Tool (PEAT)
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/>

  *

    Information about Photosensitive Seizure Disorders
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/photosensitive.php>

  *

    Epilepsy Action <https://www.epilepsy.org.uk/>

  *

    Epilepsy Foundation
    <http://www.epilepsy.com/learn/triggers-seizures/photosensitivity-and-seizures>


  *

    ITC Guidance Note for Licensees on Flashing Images and Regular
    Patterns in Television
    <http://www.ofcom.org.uk/static/archive/itc/itc_publications/codes_guidance/flashing_images/index.asp.html>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.3.1 - Three
      Flashes or Below Threshold

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G19: Ensuring that no component of the content flashes more than
    three times in any 1-second period
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G19>

 2.

    G176: Keeping the flashing area small enough
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G176>

 3.

    G15: Using a tool to ensure that content does not violate the
    general flash threshold or red flash threshold
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G15>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.3.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Reducing contrast for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Avoiding fully saturated reds for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Reducing the number of flashes even if they do not violate
    thresholds (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to suppress any flashing content before it
    begins (future link)

  *

    Slowing down live material to avoid rapid flashes (as in flashbulbs)
    (future link)

  *

    Freezing the image momentarily if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)

  *

    Dropping the contrast ratio if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)

  *

    Allowing users to set a custom flash rate limit (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.3.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.3.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

flash

    a pair of opposing changes in relative luminance
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef> that
    can cause seizures in some people if it is large enough and in the
    right frequency range

    /Note 1: /See general flash and red flash thresholds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#general-thresholddef> for
    information about types of flash that are not allowed.

    /Note 2: /See also blinking
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blinksdef>.

general flash and red flash thresholds

    a flash <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def>
    or rapidly changing image sequence is below the threshold (i.e.,
    content *passes*) if any of the following are true:

     1.

        there are no more than three *general flashes* and / or no more
        than three *red flashes* within any one-second period; or

     2.

        the combined area of flashes occurring concurrently occupies no
        more than a total of .006 steradians within any 10 degree visual
        field on the screen (25% of any 10 degree visual field on the
        screen) at typical viewing distance

    where:

      *

        A *general flash* is defined as a pair of opposing changes in
        relative luminance
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef>
        of 10% or more of the maximum relative luminance where the
        relative luminance of the darker image is below 0.80; and where
        "a pair of opposing changes" is an increase followed by a
        decrease, or a decrease followed by an increase, and

      *

        A *red flash* is defined as any pair of opposing transitions
        involving a saturated red.

    /Exception:/ Flashing that is a fine, balanced, pattern such as
    white noise or an alternating checkerboard pattern with "squares"
    smaller than 0.1 degree (of visual field at typical viewing
    distance) on a side does not violate the thresholds.

    /Note 1: /For general software or Web content, using a 341 x 256
    pixel rectangle anywhere on the displayed screen area when the
    content is viewed at 1024 x 768 pixels will provide a good estimate
    of a 10 degree visual field for standard screen sizes and viewing
    distances (e.g., 15-17 inch screen at 22-26 inches). (Higher
    resolutions displays showing the same rendering of the content yield
    smaller and safer images so it is lower resolutions that are used to
    define the thresholds.)

    /Note 2: /A transition is the change in relative luminance (or
    relative luminance/color for red flashing) between adjacent peaks
    and valleys in a plot of relative luminance (or relative
    luminance/color for red flashing) measurement against time. A flash
    consists of two opposing transitions.

    /Note 3: /The current working definition in the field for *"pair of
    opposing transitions involving a saturated red"* is where, for
    either or both states involved in each transition, R/(R+ G + B) >=
    0.8, and the change in the value of (R-G-B)x320 is > 20 (negative
    values of (R-G-B)x320 are set to zero) for both transitions. R, G, B
    values range from 0-1 as specified in “relative luminance”
    definition. [HARDING-BINNIE] <#HARDING-BINNIE>

    /Note 4: /Tools are available that will carry out analysis from
    video screen capture. However, no tool is necessary to evaluate for
    this condition if flashing is less than or equal to 3 flashes in any
    one second. Content automatically passes (see #1 and #2 above).

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Three Flashes*:
    Understanding SC 2.3.2

    *2.3.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#seizure-three-times>
    Three Flashes:* Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> do not
    contain anything that flashes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#flash-def> more than
    three times in any one second period. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The purpose of this Success Criterion is to further reduce the chance of
seizures. Seizures cannot be completely eliminated since some people are
so sensitive. However, by eliminating all 3-per-second flashing over any
area of the screen, the chances of a person having a seizure are further
reduced than when just meeting the measures ordinarily used today in
standards internationally, as we do at Level A.

Whereas Success Criterion 2.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#seizure-does-not-violate> allows
flashing if it is dim enough or has a small enough area, Success
Criterion 2.3.2 does not allow flashing greater than 3 per second,
regardless of brightness or size. As a result, even a single flashing
pixel would violate this criterion. The intent is to guard against
flashing larger than a single pixel, but since an unknown amount of
magnification or high contrast setting may be applied, the prohibition
is against any flashing.

/Note: /In some cases, what we refer to as "blinking" and what we refer
to as "flashing" may overlap slightly. We are using different terms for
the two because "blinking" causes a distraction problem which you can
allow for a short time as long as it stops (or can be stopped) whereas
"flashing" is a seizure trigger and cannot be allowed or it will cause a
seizure. The seizure would occur faster than most users could turn it
off. "Blink" therefore refers to slow repeating changes that would
distract. "Flash" refers to changes that could cause a seizure if they
were bright enough or persisted long enough. Blinking usually doesn't
occur at speeds of 3 per second or more so blink and flash do not
overlap. However, blinking can occur faster than 3 per second so there
could be an overlap. See /Understanding Success Criterion 2.2.2 Pause,
Stop, Hide <#time-limits-pause>/ for more information on blink.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.3.2

  *

    Individuals who have seizures when viewing flashing material will be
    able to view all of the material on a site without having a seizure
    and without having to miss the full experience of the content by
    being limited to text alternatives. This includes people with
    photosensitive epilepsy as well as other photosensitive seizure
    disorders.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.3.2

  *

    A movie with a scene involving very bright lightning flashes is
    edited so that the lightning only flashes three times in any one
    second period.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Harding FPA Web Site <http://www.hardingfpa.com/>

  *

    Trace Center Photosensitive Epilepsy Analysis Tool (PEAT)
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/>

  *

    Information about Photosensitive Seizure Disorders
    <http://trace.wisc.edu/peat/photosensitive.php>

  *

    Epilepsy Action <https://www.epilepsy.org.uk/>

  *

    Epilepsy Foundation
    <http://www.epilepsy.com/learn/triggers-seizures/photosensitivity-and-seizures>


  *

    ITC Guidance Note for Licensees on Flashing Images and Regular
    Patterns in Television
    <http://www.ofcom.org.uk/static/archive/itc/itc_publications/codes_guidance/flashing_images/index.asp.html>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.3.2 - Three Flashes

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G19: Ensuring that no component of the content flashes more than
    three times in any 1-second period
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G19>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.3.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Reducing contrast for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Avoiding fully saturated reds for any flashing content (future link)

  *

    Reducing the number of flashes even if they don't violate thresholds
    (future link)

  *

    Slowing down live material to avoid rapid flashes (as in flashbulbs)
    (future link)

  *

    Freezing the image momentarily if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)

  *

    Dropping the contrast ratio if 3 flashes within one second are
    detected (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.3.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.3.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

flash

    a pair of opposing changes in relative luminance
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relativeluminancedef> that
    can cause seizures in some people if it is large enough and in the
    right frequency range

    /Note 1: /See general flash and red flash thresholds
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#general-thresholddef> for
    information about types of flash that are not allowed.

    /Note 2: /See also blinking
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#blinksdef>.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Navigable*:
    Understanding Guideline 2.4

    *Guideline 2.4: * Provide ways to help users navigate, find content,
    and determine where they are.


      Intent of Guideline 2.4

The intent of this guideline is to help users find the content they need
and allow them to keep track of their location. These tasks are often
more difficult for people with disabilities. For finding, navigation,
and orientation, it is important that the user can find out what the
current location is. For navigation, information about the possible
destinations needs to be available. Screen readers convert content to
synthetic speech which, because it is audio, must be presented in linear
order. Some Success Criteria in this guideline explain what provisions
need to be taken to ensure that screen reader users can successfully
navigate the content. Others allow users to more easily recognize
navigation bars and page headers and to bypass this repeated content.
Unusual user interface features or behaviors may confuse people with
cognitive disabilities.

As described in The Motive Web Design Glossary
<http://www.motive.co.nz/glossary/navigation.php>, navigation has two
main functions:

  *

    to tell the user where they are

  *

    to enable the user to go somewhere else

This guideline works closely with Guideline 1.3
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation>,
which ensures that any structure in the content can be perceived, a key
to navigation as well. Headings are particularly important mechanisms
for helping users orient themselves within content and navigate through
it. Many users of assistive technologies rely on appropriate headings to
skim through information and easily locate the different sections of
content. Satisfying Success Criterion 1.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-programmatic>
for headings also addresses some aspects of Guideline 2.4.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 2.4 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Limiting the number of links per page (future link)

  *

    Providing mechanisms to navigate to different sections of the
    content of a Web page (future link)

  *

    Making links visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Highlighting search terms (future link)


    *Bypass Blocks*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.1

    *2.4.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-skip>
    Bypass Blocks:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to bypass blocks of content that are repeated on multiple
    Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to allow people who navigate
sequentially through content more direct access to the primary content
of the Web page. Web pages and applications often have content that
appears on other pages or screens. Examples of repeated blocks of
content include but are not limited to navigation links, heading
graphics, and advertising frames. Small repeated sections such as
individual words, phrases or single links are not considered blocks for
the purposes of this provision.

This is in contrast to a sighted user's ability to ignore the repeated
material either by focusing on the center of the screen (where main
content usually appears) or a mouse user's ability to select a link with
a single mouse click rather than encountering every link or form control
that comes before the item they want.

It is not the intent of this Success Criterion to require authors to
provide methods that are redundant to functionality provided by the user
agent. Most web browsers provide keyboard shortcuts to move the user
focus to the top of the page, so if a set of navigation links is
provided at the bottom of a web page providing a "skip" link may be
unnecessary.

/Note: /Although this Success Criterion deals with blocks of content
that are repeated on multiple pages, we also strongly promote structural
markup on individual pages as per Success Criteria 1.3.1.

Although the success criterion does not specifically use the term
“within a set of web pages”, the concept of the pages belonging to a set
is implied. An author would not be expected to avoid any possible
duplication of content in any two pages that are not in some way related
to each other; that are not "Web pages that share a common purpose and
that are created by the same author, group or organization” (the
definition of set of web pages).

/Note: /Even for web pages that are not in a set, if a web page has
blocks of text that are repeated within the page it may be helpful (but
not required) to provide a means to skip over them.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.1

  *

    When this Success Criterion is not satisfied, it may be difficult
    for people with some disabilities to reach the main content of a Web
    page quickly and easily.

  *

    Screen reader users who visit several pages on the same site can
    avoid having to hear all heading graphics and dozens of navigation
    links on every page before the main content is spoken.

  *

    People who use only the keyboard or a keyboard interface can reach
    content with fewer keystrokes. Otherwise, they might have to make
    dozens of keystrokes before reaching a link in the main content
    area. This can take a long time and may cause severe physical pain
    for some users.

  *

    People who use screen magnifiers do not have to search through the
    same headings or other blocks of information to find where the
    content begins each time they enter a new page.

  *

    People with cognitive limitations as well as people who use screen
    readers may benefit when links are grouped into lists


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.1

  *

    A news organization's home page contains a main story in the middle
    of the page, surrounded by many blocks and sidebars for advertising,
    searching, and other services. There is a link at the top of the
    page that jumps to the main story. Without using this link, a
    keyboard user needs to tab through approximately 40 links to reach
    the main story; the screen reader user has to listen to 200 words;
    and the screen magnifier user must search around for the location of
    the main body.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    WebAIM: Semantic Structure
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/>

  *

    Heading Tags <http://accessibility.psu.edu/headingshtml/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.1 - Bypass Blocks

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Creating links to skip blocks of repeated material using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G1: Adding a link at the top of each page that goes directly to
        the main content area
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G1>

      *

        G123: Adding a link at the beginning of a block of repeated
        content to go to the end of the block
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G123>

      *

        G124: Adding links at the top of the page to each area of the
        content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G124>

      *

        SL25: Using Controls and Programmatic Focus to Bypass Blocks of
        Content in Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL25>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    Grouping blocks of repeated material in a way that can be skipped,
    using one of the following techniques:

      *

        ARIA11: Using ARIA landmarks to identify regions of a page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA11>
        (ARIA)

      *

        H69: Providing heading elements at the beginning of each section
        of content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H69> (HTML)

      *

        PDF9: Providing headings by marking content with heading tags in
        PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF9> (PDF)

      *

        H70: Using frame elements to group blocks of repeated material
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H70>
        (HTML) *AND* H64: Using the title attribute of the frame and
        iframe elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H64> (HTML)

      *

        SCR28: Using an expandable and collapsible menu to bypass block
        of content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR28>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SL29: Using Silverlight "List" Controls to Define Blocks that
        can be Bypassed
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL29>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing keyboard access to important links and form controls
    (future link)

  *

    Providing skip links to enhance page navigation (future link)

  *

    Providing access keys (future link)

  *

    Using accessibility supported technologies which allow structured
    navigation by user agents and assistive technologies (future link)

  *

    C6: Positioning content based on structural markup
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C6> (CSS)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Page Titled*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.2

    *2.4.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-title>
    Page Titled:* Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> have
    titles that describe topic or purpose. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users find content and
orient themselves within it by ensuring that each Web page has a
descriptive title. Titles identify the current location without
requiring users to read or interpret page content. When titles appear in
site maps or lists of search results, users can more quickly identify
the content they need. User agents make the title of the page easily
available to the user for identifying the page. For instance, a user
agent may display the page title in the window title bar or as the name
of the tab containing the page.

In cases where the page is a document or a web application, the name of
the document or web application would be sufficient to describe the
purpose of the page. Note that it is not required to use the name of the
document or web application; other things may also describe the purpose
or the topic of the page.

Success Criteria 2.4.4
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-refs.html>
and 2.4.9
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-link.html>
deal with the purpose of links, many of which are links to web pages.
Here also, the name of a document or web application being linked to
would be sufficient to describe the purpose of the link. Having the link
and the title agree, or be very similar, is good practice and provides
continuity between the link 'clicked on' and the web page that the user
lands on.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.2

  *

    This criterion benefits all users in allowing users to quickly and
    easily identify whether the information contained in the Web page is
    relevant to their needs.

  *

    People with visual disabilities will benefit from being able to
    differentiate content when multiple Web pages are open.

  *

    People with cognitive disabilities, limited short-term memory and
    reading disabilities also benefit from the ability to identify
    content by its title.

  *

    This criterion also benefits people with severe mobility impairments
    whose mode of operation relies on audio when navigating between Web
    pages.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.2

  *

    *An HTML Web page*

    The descriptive title of an HTML Web page is marked up with the
    <title> element so that it will be displayed in the title bar of the
    user agent.

  *

    *A document collection.*

    The title of Understanding WCAG 2.0
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/> is "Understanding WCAG
    2.0."

      o

        The introduction page has the title "Introduction to
        Understanding WCAG 2.0."

      o

        Major sections of the document are pages titled "Understanding
        Guideline X" and "Understanding Success Criterion X."

      o

        Appendix A has the title "Glossary."

      o

        Appendix B has the title "Acknowledgements."

      o

        Appendix C has the title "References."

  *

    *A Web application.*

    A banking application lets a user inspect his bank accounts, view
    past statements, and perform transactions. The Web application
    dynamically generates titles for each Web page, e.g., "Bank XYZ,
    accounts for John Smith" "Bank XYZ, December 2005 statement for
    Account 1234-5678".


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Writing Better Web Page Titles
    <http://www.socialpatterns.com/search-engine-optimization/writing-better-titles/>
    How to write titles for Web pages that will enhance search engine
    effectiveness.

  *

    Guidelines for Accessible and Usable Web Sites: Observing Users Who
    Work With Screen Readers
    <http://redish.net/images/stories/PDF/interactions.html>. Theofanos,
    M.F., and Redish, J. (2003). Interactions, Volume X, Issue 6,
    November-December 2003, pages 38-51,
    http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?doid=947226.947227


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.2 - Page Titled

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G88: Providing descriptive titles for Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G88> *AND*
    associating a title with a Web page using one of the following
    techniques:

      *

        H25: Providing a title using the title element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H25> (HTML)

      *

        PDF18: Specifying the document title using the Title entry in
        the document information dictionary of a PDF document
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF18> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G127: Identifying a Web page's relationship to a larger collection
    of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G127>

  *

    Identifying the subject of the Web page (future link)

  *

    Providing a meaningful name for identifying frames (future link)

  *

    Using unique titles for Web pages (future link)

  *

    Providing a descriptive top-level page heading (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F25: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.2 due to the title of a Web
    page not identifying the contents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F25>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Focus Order*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.3

    *2.4.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-focus-order>
    Focus Order:* If a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> can be
    navigated sequentially
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#nav-seqdef> and the
    navigation sequences affect meaning or operation, focusable
    components receive focus in an order that preserves meaning and
    operability. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that when users
navigate sequentially through content, they encounter information in an
order that is consistent with the meaning of the content and can be
operated from the keyboard. This reduces confusion by letting users form
a consistent mental model of the content. There may be different orders
that reflect logical relationships in the content. For example, moving
through components in a table one row at a time or one column at a time
both reflect the logical relationships in the content. Either order may
satisfy this Success Criterion.

The way that sequential navigation order is determined in Web content is
defined by the technology of the content. For example, simple HTML
defines sequential navigation via the notion of tabbing order. Dynamic
HTML may modify the navigation sequence using scripting along with the
addition of a tabindex attribute to allow focus to additional elements.
If no scripting or tabindex attributes are used, the navigation order is
the order that components appear in the content stream. (See HTML 4.01
Specification, section 17.11, "Giving focus to an element").

An example of keyboard navigation that is not the sequential navigation
addressed by this Success Criterion is using arrow key navigation to
traverse a tree component. The user can use the up and down arrow keys
to move from tree node to tree node. Pressing the right arrow key may
expand a node, then using the down arrow key, will move into the newly
expanded nodes. This navigation sequence follows the expected sequence
for a tree control - as additional items get expanded or collapsed, they
are added or removed from the navigation sequence.

The focus order may not be identical to the programmatically determined
reading order (see Success Criterion 1.3.2) as long as the user can
still understand and operate the Web page. Since there may be several
possible logical reading orders for the content, the focus order may
match any of them. However, when the order of a particular presentation
differs from the programmatically determined reading order, users of one
of these presentations may find it difficult to understand or operate
the Web page. Authors should carefully consider all these users as they
design their Web pages.

For example, a screen reader user interacts with the programmatically
determined reading order, while a sighted keyboard user interacts with
the visual presentation of the Web page. Care should be taken so that
the focus order makes sense to both of these sets of users and does not
appear to either of them to jump around randomly.

For clarity:

 1.

    Focusable components need to receive focus in an order that
    preserves meaning and operability only when navigation sequences
    affect meaning and operability.

 2.

    In those cases where it is required, there may be more than one
    order that will preserve meaning and operability.

 3.

    If there is more than one order that preserves meaning and
    operability, only one of them needs to be provided.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.3

These techniques benefit keyboard users who navigate documents
sequentially and expect the focus order to be consistent with the
sequential reading order.

  *

    People with mobility impairments who must rely on keyboard access
    for operating a page benefit from a logical, usable focus order.

  *

    People with disabilities that make reading difficult can become
    disoriented when tabbing takes focus someplace unexpected. They
    benefit from a logical focus order.

  *

    People with visual impairments can become disoriented when tabbing
    takes focus someplace unexpected or when they cannot easily find the
    content surrounding an interactive element.

  *

    Only a small portion of the page may be visible to an individual
    using a screen magnifier at a high level of magnification. Such a
    user may interpret a field in the wrong context if the focus order
    is not logical.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.3

 1.

    On a web page that contains a tree of interactive controls, the user
    can use the up and down arrow keys to move from tree node to tree
    node. Pressing the right arrow key expands a node, then using the
    down arrow key moves into the newly expanded nodes.

 2.

    A Web page implements modeless dialogs via scripting. When the
    trigger button is activated, a dialog opens. The interactive
    elements in the dialog are inserted in the focus order immediately
    after the button. When the dialog is open, the focus order goes from
    the button to the elements of the dialog, then to the interactive
    element following the button. When the dialog is closed, the focus
    order goes from the button to the following element.

 3.

    A Web page implements modal dialogs via scripting. When the trigger
    button is activated, a dialog opens and focus is set to the first
    interactive element in the dialog. As long as the dialog is open,
    focus is limited to the elements of the dialog. When the dialog is
    dismissed, focus returns to the button or the element following the
    button.

 4.

    An HTML Web page is created with the left hand navigation occurring
    in the HTML after the main body content, and styled with CSS to
    appear on the left hand side of the page. This is done to allow
    focus to move to the main body content first without requiring
    tabIndex attributes or JavaScript.

    /Note: /While this example passes the Success Criterion, it is not
    necessarily true that all CSS positioning would. More complex
    positioning examples may or may not preserve meaning and operability

 5.

    The following example *fails to meet the Success Criterion*:

    A company's Web site includes a form that collects marketing data
    and allows users to subscribe to several newsletters published by
    the company. The section of the form for collecting marketing data
    includes fields such as name, street address, city, state or
    province, and postal code. Another section of the form includes
    several checkboxes so that users can indicate newsletters they want
    to receive. However, the tab order for the form skips between fields
    in different sections of the form, so that focus moves from the name
    field to a checkbox, then to the street address, then to another
    checkbox.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.3 - Focus Order

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G59: Placing the interactive elements in an order that follows
    sequences and relationships within the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G59>

 2.

    Giving focus to elements in an order that follows sequences and
    relationships within the content using one of the following techniques:

      *

        H4: Creating a logical tab order through links, form controls,
        and objects
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H4> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH15: Using the tabIndex property to specify a logical
        reading order and a logical tab order in Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH15>
        (Flash)

      *

        C27: Making the DOM order match the visual order
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C27> (CSS)

      *

        PDF3: Ensuring correct tab and reading order in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF3> (PDF)

      *

        SL34: Using the Silverlight Default Tab Sequence and Altering
        Tab Sequences With Properties
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL34>
        (Silverlight)

 3.

    Changing a Web page dynamically using one of the following techniques:

      *

        SCR26: Inserting dynamic content into the Document Object Model
        immediately following its trigger element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR26>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR37: Creating Custom Dialogs in a Device Independent Way
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR37>
        (Scripting)

      *

        SCR27: Reordering page sections using the Document Object Model
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR27>
        (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing a highly visible highlighting mechanism for links or
    controls when they receive keyboard focus (future link)

  *

    Creating alternative presentation orders (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F44: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.3 due to using tabindex to
    create a tab order that does not preserve meaning and operability
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F44>

  *

    F85: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.3 due to using dialogs or
    menus that are not adjacent to their trigger control in the
    sequential navigation order
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F85>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

navigated sequentially

    navigated in the order defined for advancing focus (from one element
    to the next) using a keyboard interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#keybrd-interfacedef>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Link Purpose (In Context)*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.4

    *2.4.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-refs>
    Link Purpose (In Context):* The purpose of each link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#linkpurposedef> can
    be determined from the link text alone or from the link text
    together with its programmatically determined link context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#pdlinkcontextdef>,
    except where the purpose of the link would be ambiguous to users in
    general
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ambiguouslinkdef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users understand the
purpose of each link so they can decide whether they want to follow the
link. Whenever possible, provide link text that identifies the purpose
of the link without needing additional context. Assistive technology has
the ability to provide users with a list of links that are on the Web
page. Link text that is as meaningful as possible will aid users who
want to choose from this list of links. Meaningful link text also helps
those who wish to tab from link to link. Meaningful links help users
choose which links to follow without requiring complicated strategies to
understand the page.

The text of, or associated with, the link is intended to describe the
purpose of the link. In cases where the link takes one to a document or
a web application, the name of the document or web application would be
sufficient to describe the purpose of the link (which is to take you to
the document or web application). Note that it is not required to use
the name of the document or web application; other things may also
describe the purpose of the link.

Success Criterion 2.4.2
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-title.html>
deals with the titles of pages. Here also, the name of a document or web
application being presented on the page would be sufficient to describe
the purpose of the page. Having the link and the title agree, or be very
similar, is good practice and provides continuity between the link
'clicked on' and the web page that the user lands on.

In some situations, authors may want to provide part of the description
of the link in logically related text that provides the context for the
link. In this case the user should be able to identify the purpose of
the link without moving focus from the link. In other words, they can
arrive on a link and find out more about it without losing their place.
This can be achieved by putting the description of the link in the same
sentence, paragraph, list item, or table cell as the link, or in the
table header cell for a link in a data table, because these are directly
associated with the link itself. Alternatively, authors may choose to
use an ARIA technique to associate additional text on the page with the
link.

This context will be most usable if it precedes the link. (For instance,
if you must use ambiguous link text, it is better to put it at the end
of the sentence that describes its destination, rather than putting the
ambiguous phrase at the beginning of the sentence.) If the description
follows the link, there can be confusion and difficulty for screen
reader users who are reading through the page in order (top to bottom).

It is a best practice for links with the same destination to have
consistent descriptions (and this is a requirement per Success Criterion
3.2.4
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
for pages in a set). It is also a best practice for links with different
purposes and destinations to have different descriptions.

The Success Criterion includes an exception for links for which the
purpose of the link cannot be determined from the information on the Web
page. In this situation, the person with the disability is not at a
disadvantage; there is no additional context available to understand the
link purpose. However, whatever amount of context is available on the
Web page that can be used to interpret the purpose of the link must be
made available in the link text or programmatically associated with the
link to satisfy the Success Criterion.

/Note: /There may be situations where the purpose of the link is is
supposed to be unknown or obscured. For instance, a game may have links
identified only as door #1, door #2, and door #3. This link text would
be sufficient because the purpose of the links is to create suspense for
all users.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 2.4.9 Link Purpose (Link Only)
<#navigation-mechanisms-link>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.4

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with motion impairment by
    letting them skip links that they are not interested in, avoiding
    the keystrokes needed to visit the referenced content and then
    returning to the current content.

  *

    People with cognitive limitations will not become disoriented by
    multiple means of navigation to and from content they are not
    interested in.

  *

    People with visual disabilities will be able to determine the
    purpose of a link by exploring the link's context.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.4

  *

    *A link contains text that gives a description of the information at
    that URI*

    A page contains the sentence "There was much bloodshed during the
    Medieval period of history." Where "Medieval period of history" is a
    link.

  *

    *A link is preceded by a text description of the information at that
    URI*

    A page contains the sentence "Learn more about the Government of
    Ireland's Commission on Electronic Voting at Go Vote!" where "Go
    Vote!" is a link.

  *

    *Both an icon and text are included in the same link*

    An icon of a voting machine and the text "Government of Ireland's
    Commission of Electronic Voting" are combined to make a single link.
    The alt text for the icon is null, since the purpose of the link is
    already described by the text of the link next to the icon.

  *

    *A list of book titles*

    A list of books is available in three formats: HTML, PDF, and mp3 (a
    recording of a person reading the book). To avoid hearing the title
    of each book three times (once for each format), the first link for
    each book is the title of the book, the second link says "PDF" and
    the third says, "mp3."

  *

    *News article summaries*

    A Web page contains a collection of news articles. The main page
    lists the first few sentences of each article, followed by a "Read
    more" link. A screen reader command to read the current paragraph
    provides the context to interpret the purpose of the link.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Using Link Titles to Help Users Predict Where They Are Going
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/using-link-titles-to-help-users-predict-where-they-are-going/>


  *

    WebAIM Techniques for Hypertext Links
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/hypertext/>

  *

    Hidden barriers - out of sight
    <http://www.rnib.org.uk/blogs/expert-series?Name=Hidden%20barriers>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.4 - Link Purpose
      (In Context)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G91>

 2.

    H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for
    anchor elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H30> (HTML)

 3.

    H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H24> (HTML)

 4.

    FLASH27: Providing button labels that describe the purpose of a
    button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH27> (Flash)

 5.

    Allowing the user to choose short or long link text using one of the
    techniques below:

      *

        G189: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page
        that changes the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G189>

      *

        SCR30: Using scripts to change the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR30>
        (Scripting)

      *

        FLASH7: Using scripting to change control labels
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH7>
        (Flash)

 6.

    G53: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with
    the text of the enclosing sentence
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G53>

 7.

    Providing a supplemental description of the purpose of a link using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        H33: Supplementing link text with the title attribute
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H33> (HTML)

      *

        C7: Using CSS to hide a portion of the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C7> (CSS)

 8.

    Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with
    programmatically determined link context using one of the following
    techniques:

      *

        ARIA7: Using aria-labelledby for link purpose
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA7> (ARIA)

      *

        ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA8> (ARIA)

      *

        H77: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined
        with its enclosing list item
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H77> (HTML)

      *

        H78: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined
        with its enclosing paragraph
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H78> (HTML)

      *

        H79: Identifying the purpose of a link in a data table using the
        link text combined with its enclosing table cell and associated
        table header cells
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H79> (HTML)

      *

        H81: Identifying the purpose of a link in a nested list using
        link text combined with the parent list item under which the
        list is nested
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H81> (HTML)

 9.

    G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G91> *AND*
    Semantically indicating links using one of the following techniques:

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the Link annotation
        and the /Link structure element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF13: Providing replacement text using the /Alt entry for links
        in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF13> (PDF)

      *

        SL18: Providing Text Equivalent for Nontext Silverlight Controls
        With AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL18>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2> (HTML)

  *

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH5> (Flash)

  *

    H80: Identifying the purpose of a link using link text combined with
    the preceding heading element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H80> (HTML)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F63: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.4 due to providing link
    context only in content that is not related to the link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F63>

  *

    F89: Failure of Success Criteria 2.4.4, 2.4.9 and 4.1.2 due to not
    providing an accessible name for an image which is the only content
    in a link <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F89>


      Key Terms

ambiguous to users in general

    the purpose cannot be determined from the link and all information
    of the Web page presented to the user simultaneously with the link
    (i.e., readers without disabilities would not know what a link would
    do until they activated it)

    /Example: /The word guava in the following sentence "One of the
    notable exports is guava" is a link. The link could lead to a
    definition of guava, a chart listing the quantity of guava exported
    or a photograph of people harvesting guava. Until the link is
    activated, all readers are unsure and the person with a disability
    is not at any disadvantage.

link purpose

    nature of the result obtained by activating a hyperlink

programmatically determined link context

    additional information that can be programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    from relationships
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#relationshipsdef>
    with a link, combined with the link text, and presented to users in
    different modalities

    /Example: /In HTML, information that is programmatically
    determinable from a link in English includes text that is in the
    same paragraph, list, or table cell as the link or in a table header
    cell that is associated with the table cell that contains the link.

    /Note: /Since screen readers interpret punctuation, they can also
    provide the context from the current sentence, when the focus is on
    a link in that sentence.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Multiple Ways*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.5

    *2.4.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-mult-loc>
    Multiple Ways:* More than one way is available to locate a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> within a
    set of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#set-of-web-pagesdef>
    except where the Web Page is the result of, or a step in, a process
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to make it possible for users to
locate content in a manner that best meets their needs. Users may find
one technique easier or more comprehensible to use than another.

Even small sites should provide users some means of orientation. For a
three or four page site, with all pages linked from the home page, it
may be sufficient simply to provide links from and to the home page
where the links on the home page can also serve as a site map.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.5

  *

    Providing an opportunity to navigate sites in more than one manner
    can help people find information faster. Users with visual
    impairments may find it easier to navigate to the correct part of
    the site by using a search, rather than scrolling through a large
    navigation bar using a screen magnifier or screen reader. A person
    with cognitive disabilities may prefer a table of contents or site
    map that provides an overview of the site rather than reading and
    traversing through several Web pages. Some users may prefer to
    explore the site in a sequential manner, moving from Web page to Web
    page in order to best understand the concepts and layout.

  *

    Individuals with cognitive limitations may find it easier to use
    search features than to use a hierarchical navigation scheme that be
    difficult to understand.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.5

  *

    *A search mechanism.*

    A large food processing company provides a site containing recipes
    created using its products. The site provides a search mechanism to
    search for recipes using a particular ingredient. In addition, it
    provides a list box that lists several categories of foods. A user
    may type "soup" in to the search engine or may select "soup" from
    the list box to go to a page with a list of recipes made from the
    company's soup products

  *

    *Links between Web pages.*

    A local hair salon has created a Web site to promote its services.
    The site contains only five Web pages. There are links on each Web
    page to sequentially move forward or backward through the Web pages.
    In addition, each Web page contains a list of links to reach each of
    the other Web pages.

  *

    *Where content is a result of a process or task - Funds transfer
    confirmation.*

    An on-line banking site allows fund transfer between accounts via
    the Web. There is no other way to locate the confirmation of fund
    transfer until the account owner completes the transfer.

  *

    *Where content is a result of a process or task - Search engine
    results.*

    A search engine provides the search results based on user input.
    There is no other way to locate the search results except to perform
    the search process itself.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.5 - Multiple Ways

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Using two or more of the following techniques:

      *

        G125: Providing links to navigate to related Web pages
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G125>

      *

        G64: Providing a Table of Contents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G64>

      *

        PDF2: Creating bookmarks in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF2> (PDF)

      *

        G63: Providing a site map
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G63>

      *

        G161: Providing a search function to help users find content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G161>

      *

        G126: Providing a list of links to all other Web pages
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G126>

      *

        G185: Linking to all of the pages on the site from the home page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G185>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H59: Using the link element and navigation tools
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H59> (HTML)

  *

    Including information about presentation modes in tables of contents
    and concept maps (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

process

    series of user actions where each action is required in order to
    complete an activity

    /Example 1: /Successful use of a series of Web pages on a shopping
    site requires users to view alternative products, prices and offers,
    select products, submit an order, provide shipping information and
    provide payment information.

    /Example 2: /An account registration page requires successful
    completion of a Turing test before the registration form can be
    accessed.

set of Web pages

    collection of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    share a common purpose and that are created by the same author,
    group or organization

    /Note: /Different language versions would be considered different
    sets of Web pages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Headings and Labels*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.6

    *2.4.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-descriptive>
    Headings and Labels:* Headings and labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#labeldef> describe
    topic or purpose. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users understand what
information is contained in Web pages and how that information is
organized. When headings are clear and descriptive, users can find the
information they seek more easily, and they can understand the
relationships between different parts of the content more easily.
Descriptive labels help users identify specific components within the
content.

Labels and headings do not need to be lengthy. A word, or even a single
character, may suffice if it provides an appropriate cue to finding and
navigating content.

/Note: /This success criterion does not require headings or labels. This
success criterion requires that if headings or labels are provided, they
be descriptive. Also note that, if headings or labels are provided, they
must meet /Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
<#content-structure-separation-programmatic>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.6

  *

    Descriptive headings are especially helpful for users who have
    disabilities that make reading slow and for people with limited
    short-term memory. These people benefit when section titles make it
    possible to predict what each section contains.

  *

    People who have difficulty using their hands or who experience pain
    when doing so will benefit from techniques that reduce the number of
    keystrokes required to reach the content they need.

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people who use screen readers by
    ensuring that labels and headings are meaningful when read out of
    context, for example, in a Table of Contents, or when jumping from
    heading to heading within a page.

    This Success Criterion may also help users with low vision who can
    see only a few words at a time.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.6

  *

    *A news site.*

    The home page of a news site lists the headlines for the top stories
    of the hour. Under each heading are the first 35 words of the story
    and a link to the full article. Each headline gives a clear idea of
    the article's subject.

  *

    *A guide on how to write well*

    A guide on writing contains the following section titles: How To
    Write Well, Cut Out Useless Words, Identify Unnecessary Words, etc.
    The section headings are clear and concise and the structure of the
    information is reflected in the structure of the headings.

  *

    *Consistent headings in different articles*

    A Web site contains papers from a conference. Submissions to the
    conference are required to have the following organization: Summary,
    Introduction, [other sections unique to this article], Conclusion,
    Author Biography, Glossary, and Bibliography. The title of each Web
    page clearly identifies the article it contains, creating a useful
    balance between the uniqueness of the articles and the consistency
    of the section headings.

  *

    *A form asking the name of the user*

    A form asks the name of the user. It consists of two input fields to
    ask for the first and last name. The first field is labeled "First
    name", the second is labeled "Last name"."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    How Users Read on the Web
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/how-users-read-on-the-web/> A
    study showing that most users scan Web pages rather than reading
    them word by word.

  *

    Applying Writing Guidelines to Web Pages
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/applying-writing-guidelines-web-pages/>
    A report on the effects of making Web sites concise, easy to scan,
    and objective.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.6 - Headings and
      Labels

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G130: Providing descriptive headings
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G130>

 2.

    G131: Providing descriptive labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G131>

/Note: / Headings and labels must be programmatically determined, per
Success Criterion 1.3.1
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#content-structure-separation-programmatic>.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using unique section headings in a Web Page (future link)

  *

    Starting section headings with unique information (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

label

    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> or
    other component with a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> that is
    presented to a user to identify a component within Web content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef>

    /Note 1: / A label is presented to all users whereas the name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#namedef> may be
    hidden and only exposed by assistive technology. In many (but not
    all) cases the name and the label are the same.

    /Note 2: /The term label is not limited to the label element in HTML.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Focus Visible*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.7

    *2.4.7
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-focus-visible>
    Focus Visible:* Any keyboard operable user interface has a mode of
    operation where the keyboard focus indicator is visible. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The purpose of this success criterion is to help a person know which
element has the keyboard focus.

The purpose of this success criterion is to help a person know which
element among multiple elements has the keyboard focus. If there is only
one keyboard actionable control on the screen, the success criterion
would be met because the visual design presents only one keyboard
actionable item.

Note that a keyboard focus indicator can take different forms. One
common way is a caret within the text field to indicate that the text
field has the keyboard focus. Another is a visual change to a button to
indicate that that button has the keyboard focus.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.7

  *

    This Success Criterion helps anyone who relies on the keyboard to
    operate the page, by letting them visually determine the component
    on which keyboard operations will interact at any point in time.

  *

    People with attention limitations, short term memory limitations, or
    limitations in executive processes benefit by being able to discover
    where the focus is located.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.7

  *

    When text fields receive focus, a vertical bar is displayed in the
    field, indicating that the user can insert text, OR all of the text
    is highlighted, indicating that the user can type over the text.

  *

    When a user interface control receives focus, a visible border is
    displayed around it.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Styling form controls with CSS, revisited
    <http://www.456bereastreet.com/archive/200701/styling_form_controls_with_css_revisited/>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.7 - Focus Visible

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G149: Using user interface components that are highlighted by the
    user agent when they receive focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G149>

 2.

    C15: Using CSS to change the presentation of a user interface
    component when it receives focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C15> (CSS)

 3.

    G165: Using the default focus indicator for the platform so that
    high visibility default focus indicators will carry over
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G165>

 4.

    G195: Using an author-supplied, highly visible focus indicator
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G195>

 5.

    SCR31: Using script to change the background color or border of the
    element with focus
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR31>
    (Scripting)

 6.

    FLASH20: Reskinning Flash components to provide highly visible focus
    indication
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH20> (Flash)

 7.

    SL2: Changing The Visual Focus Indicator in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL2>
    (Silverlight)

 8.

    SL7: Designing a Focused Visual State for Custom Silverlight
    Controls <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL7>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.7

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Highlighting a link or control when the mouse hovers over it (future
    link)

  *

    Providing a highly visible highlighting mechanism for links or
    controls when they receive keyboard focus (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.7

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.7 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F55: Failure of Success Criteria 2.1.1, 2.4.7, and 3.2.1 due to
    using script to remove focus when focus is received
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F55>

  *

    F78: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.7 due to styling element
    outlines and borders in a way that removes or renders non-visible
    the visual focus indicator
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F78>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Location*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.8

    *2.4.8
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-location>
    Location:* Information about the user's location within a set of Web
    pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#set-of-web-pagesdef>
    is available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide a way for the user to
orient herself within a set of Web pages, a Web site, or a Web
application and find related information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.8

  *

    This Success Criterion is helpful for people with a short attention
    span who may become confused when following a long series of
    navigation steps to a Web page. It is also helpful when a user
    follows a link directly to a page deep within a set of Web pages and
    needs to navigate that Web site to understand the content of that
    page or to find more related information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.8

  *

    *Links to help user determine their location in a site*

    A research group is part of an educational department at a
    university. The group's home page links to the department home page
    and the university's home page.

  *

    *A breadcrumb trail*

    A portal Web site organizes topics into categories. As the user
    navigates through categories and subcategories, a breadcrumb trail
    shows the current location in the hierarchy of categories. Each page
    also contains a link to the portal home page.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    The Sound of the Accessible Title Tag Separator
    <http://www.standards-schmandards.com/2004/title-text-separators/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.8 - Location

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G65: Providing a breadcrumb trail
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G65>

 2.

    G63: Providing a site map
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G63>

 3.

    G128: Indicating current location within navigation bars
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G128>

 4.

    G127: Identifying a Web page's relationship to a larger collection
    of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G127> using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        H59: Using the link element and navigation tools
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H59> (HTML)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.8

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    PDF14: Providing running headers and footers in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF14> (PDF)

  *

    PDF17: Specifying consistent page numbering for PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF17> (PDF)

  *

    Providing a link to the home page or main page (future link)

  *

    Providing an easy-to-read version of information about the
    organization of a set of Web pages (future link)

  *

    Providing a sign language version of information about the
    organization of a set of Web pages (future link)

  *

    Providing an easy-to-read summary at the beginning of each section
    of content (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.8

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.8 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

set of Web pages

    collection of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    share a common purpose and that are created by the same author,
    group or organization

    /Note: /Different language versions would be considered different
    sets of Web pages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Link Purpose (Link Only)*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.9

    *2.4.9
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-link>
    Link Purpose (Link Only):* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to allow the purpose of each link to be identified from
    link text alone, except where the purpose of the link would be
    ambiguous to users in general
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ambiguouslinkdef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users understand the
purpose of each link in the content, so they can decide whether they
want to follow it. Best practice is that links with the same destination
would have the same descriptions, but links with different purposes and
destinations would have different descriptions (see also Success
Criterion 3.2.4
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
which calls for consistency in identifying components that have the same
functionality). Because the purpose of a link can be identified from its
link text, links can be understood when they are out of context, such as
when the user agent provides a list of all the links on a page.

The text in the link is intended to describe the purpose of the link. In
cases where the link takes one to a document or a web application, the
name of the document or web application would be sufficient to describe
the purpose of the link (which is to take you to the document or web
application). Note that it is not required to use the name of the
document or web application; other things may also describe the purpose
of the link.

Success Criterion 2.4.2
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/navigation-mechanisms-title.html>
deals with the titles of pages. Here also, the name of a document or web
application being presented on the page would be sufficient to describe
the purpose of the page. Having the link and the title agree, or be very
similar, is good practice and provides continuity between the link
'clicked on' and the web page that the user lands on.

The Success Criterion includes an exception for links for which the
purpose of the link cannot be determined from the information on the Web
page. In this situation, the person with the disability is not at a
disadvantage; there is no additional context available to understand the
link purpose. However, whatever amount of context is available on the
Web page that can be used to interpret the purpose of the link must be
made available in the link text to satisfy the Success Criterion.

The word "mechanism" is used to allow authors to either make all links
fully understandable out of context by default or to provide a way to
make them this way. This is done because for some pages, making the
links all unambiguous by themselves makes the pages easier for some
users and harder for others. Providing the ability to make the links
unambiguous (by them selves) or not provides both users with
disabilities with the ability to use the page in the format that best
meets their needs.

For example: A page listing 100 book titles along with links to download
the books in HTML, PDF, DOC, TXT, MP3, or AAC might ordinarily be viewed
as the title of the book as a link with the words "in HTML" after it.
then the sentence "Also available in: " followed by a series of short
links with text of "HTML", "PDF", "DOC", "TXT", "MP3", and "AAC". At
Level 3, some users could opt to view the page this way - because they
would find the page harder to understand or slower to use if the full
title of the book were included in each of the links. Others could opt
to view the page with the full title as part of each of the links so
that each link was understandable in itself. Both the former and the
latter groups could include people with visual or cognitive disabilities
that used different techniques to browse or that had different types or
severities of disability.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.9

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with motion impairment by
    letting them skip Web pages that they are not interested in,
    avoiding the keystrokes needed to visit the referenced content and
    then return to the current content.

  *

    People with cognitive limitations will not become disoriented by
    extra navigation to and from content they are not interested in.

  *

    People with visual disabilities will benefit from not losing their
    place in the content when they return to the original page. The
    screen reader's list of links is more useful for finding information
    because the target of the links are described.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.9

  *

    *Both an icon and text are included in the same link*

    An icon of a voting machine and the text "Government of Ireland's
    Commission of Electronic Voting" are combined to make a single link.

  *

    *A list of book titles*

    A list of books is available in three formats: HTML, PDF, and mp3 (a
    recording of a person reading the book). The title of the book is
    followed by links to the different formats. The rendered text for
    each link is just the format type, but the text associated with each
    link includes the title as well as the format; for instance,
    "Gulliver's Travels, MP3."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Using Link Titles to Help Users Predict Where They Are Going
    <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/using-link-titles-to-help-users-predict-where-they-are-going/>


  *

    WebAIM Techniques for Hypertext Links
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/hypertext/>

  *

    Hidden barriers - out of sight
    <http://www.rnib.org.uk/blogs/expert-series?Name=Hidden%20barriers>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.9 - Link Purpose
      (Link Only)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    ARIA8: Using aria-label for link purpose
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA8> (ARIA)

 2.

    G91: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G91>

 3.

    H30: Providing link text that describes the purpose of a link for
    anchor elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H30> (HTML)

 4.

    H24: Providing text alternatives for the area elements of image maps
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H24> (HTML)

 5.

    FLASH27: Providing button labels that describe the purpose of a
    button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH27> (Flash)

 6.

    Allowing the user to choose short or long link text using one of the
    techniques below:

      *

        G189: Providing a control near the beginning of the Web page
        that changes the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G189>

      *

        SCR30: Using scripts to change the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR30>
        (Scripting)

      *

        FLASH7: Using scripting to change control labels
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH7>
        (Flash)

 7.

    Providing a supplemental description of the purpose of a link using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        C7: Using CSS to hide a portion of the link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C7> (CSS)

 8.

    Semantically indicating links using one of the following techniques:

      *

        PDF11: Providing links and link text using the Link annotation
        and the /Link structure element in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF11> (PDF)

      *

        PDF13: Providing replacement text using the /Alt entry for links
        in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF13> (PDF)

      *

        SL18: Providing Text Equivalent for Nontext Silverlight Controls
        With AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL18>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.9

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2> (HTML)

  *

    FLASH5: Combining adjacent image and text buttons for the same
    resource
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH5> (Flash)

  *

    H33: Supplementing link text with the title attribute
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H33> (HTML)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.9

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.9 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F84: Failure of Success Criterion 2.4.9 due to using a non-specific
    link such as "click here" or "more" without a mechanism to change
    the link text to specific text.
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F84>

  *

    F89: Failure of Success Criteria 2.4.4, 2.4.9 and 4.1.2 due to not
    providing an accessible name for an image which is the only content
    in a link <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F89>


      Key Terms

ambiguous to users in general

    the purpose cannot be determined from the link and all information
    of the Web page presented to the user simultaneously with the link
    (i.e., readers without disabilities would not know what a link would
    do until they activated it)

    /Example: /The word guava in the following sentence "One of the
    notable exports is guava" is a link. The link could lead to a
    definition of guava, a chart listing the quantity of guava exported
    or a photograph of people harvesting guava. Until the link is
    activated, all readers are unsure and the person with a disability
    is not at any disadvantage.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Section Headings*:
    Understanding SC 2.4.10

    *2.4.10
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#navigation-mechanisms-headings>
    Section Headings:* Section
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sectiondef> headings
    are used to organize the content. (Level AAA)

    /Note 1: /"Heading" is used in its general sense and includes titles
    and other ways to add a heading to different types of content.

    /Note 2: /This success criterion covers sections within writing, not
    user interface components
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>.
    User Interface components are covered under Success Criterion 4.1.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ensure-compat-rsv>.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to provide headings for sections
of a Web page, when the page is organized into sections. For instance,
long documents are often divided into a variety of chapters, chapters
have subtopics and subtopics are divided into various sections, sections
into paragraphs, etc. When such sections exist, they need to have
headings that introduce them. This clearly indicates the organization of
the content, facilitates navigation within the content, and provides
mental "handles" that aid in comprehension of the content. Other page
elements may complement headings to improve presentation (e.g.,
horizontal rules and boxes), but visual presentation is not sufficient
to identify document sections.

This provision is included at Level AAA because it cannot be applied to
all types of content and it may not always be possible to insert
headings. For example, when posting a pre-existing document to the Web,
headings that an author did not include in the original document cannot
be inserted. Or, a long letter would often cover different topics, but
putting headings into a letter would be very strange. However, if a
document can be broken up into sections with headings, it facilitates
both understanding and navigation.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 2.4.10

  *

    People who are blind will know when they have moved from one section
    of a Web page to another and will know the purpose of each section.

  *

    People with some learning disabilities will be able to use the
    headings to understand the overall organization of the page content
    more easily.

  *

    People who navigate content by keyboard will be able to jump the
    focus from heading to heading, enabling them to find quickly content
    of interest.

  *

    In pages where content in part of the page updates, headings can be
    used to quickly access updated content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 2.4.10

  *

    A menu contains different sections for different courses. Each
    section has a heading: Appetizers, Salad, Soup, Entree, Dessert.

  *

    A Web application contains a settings page that is divided into
    groups of related settings. Each section contains a heading
    describing the class of settings.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    WebAIM: Semantic Structure
    <http://webaim.org/techniques/semanticstructure/>

  *

    Heading Tags <http://accessibility.psu.edu/headingshtml/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 2.4.10 - Section
      Headings

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G141: Organizing a page using headings
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G141>

 2.

    H69: Providing heading elements at the beginning of each section of
    content <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H69>
    (HTML)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 2.4.10

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using the 'live' property to mark live regions (future link) (ARIA)

  *

    Providing mechanisms to navigate to different sections of the
    content of a Web page (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 2.4.10

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 2.4.10 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

section

    A self-contained portion of written content that deals with one or
    more related topics or thoughts

    /Note: /A section may consist of one or more paragraphs and include
    graphics, tables, lists and sub-sections.

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Readable*:
    Understanding Guideline 3.1

    *Guideline 3.1: * Make text content readable and understandable.


      Intent of Guideline 3.1

The intent of this guideline is to allow text content to be read by
users and by assistive technology, and to ensure that information
necessary for understanding it is available.

People with disabilities experience text in many different ways. For
some the experience is visual; for some it is auditory; for some it is
tactile; for still others it is both visual and auditory. Some users
experience great difficulty in recognizing written words yet understand
extremely complex and sophisticated documents when the text is read
aloud, or when key processes and ideas are illustrated visually or
interpreted as sign language. For some users, it is difficult to infer
the meaning of a word or phrase from context, especially when the word
or phrase is used in an unusual way or has been given a specialized
meaning; for these users the ability to read and understand may depend
on the availability of specific definitions or the expanded forms of
acronyms or abbreviations. User agents, including speech-enabled as well
as graphical applications, may be unable to present text correctly
unless the language and direction of the text are identified; while
these may be minor problems for most users, they can be enormous
barriers for users with disabilities. In cases where meaning cannot be
determined without pronunciation information (for example, certain
Japanese Kanji characters), pronunciation information must be available
as well


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 3.1 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Setting expectations about content in the page from uncontrolled
    sources (future link)

  *

    Providing sign language interpretation for all content (future link)

  *

    Using the clearest and simplest language appropriate for the content
    (future link)

  *

    Avoiding centrally aligned text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding text that is fully justified (to both left and right
    margins) in a way that causes poor spacing between words or
    characters (future link)

  *

    Using left-justified text for languages that are written left to
    right and right-justified text for languages that are written
    right-to-left (future link)

  *

    Limiting text column width (future link)

  *

    Avoiding chunks of italic text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding overuse of different styles on individual pages and in
    sites (future link)

  *

    Making links visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Using images, illustrations, video, audio, or symbols to clarify
    meaning (future link)

  *

    Providing practical examples to clarify content (future link)

  *

    Using a light pastel background rather than a white background
    behind black text (future link)

  *

    Avoiding the use of unique interface controls unnecessarily (future
    link)

  *

    Using upper and lower case according to the spelling rules of the
    text language (future link)

  *

    Avoiding unusual foreign words (future link)

  *

    Providing sign language versions of information, ideas, and
    processes that must be understood in order to use the content
    (future link)

  *

    Making any reference to a location in a Web page into a link to that
    location (future link)

  *

    Making references to a heading or title include the full text of the
    title (future link)

  *

    Providing easy-to-read versions of basic information about a set of
    Web pages, including information about how to contact the Webmaster
    (future link)

  *

    Providing a sign language version of basic information about a set
    of Web pages, including information about how to contact the
    Webmaster (future link)


    *Language of Page*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.1

    *3.1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-doc-lang-id>
    Language of Page:* The default human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef> of
    each Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> can be
    programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that content
developers provide information in the Web page that user agents need to
present text and other linguistic content correctly. Both assistive
technologies and conventional user agents can render text more
accurately when the language of the Web page is identified. Screen
readers can load the correct pronunciation rules. Visual browsers can
display characters and scripts correctly. Media players can show
captions correctly. As a result, users with disabilities will be better
able to understand the content.

The default human language of the Web page is the default
text-processing language as discussed in Internationalization Best
Practices: Specifying Language in XHTML & HTML Content
<http://www.w3.org/TR/i18n-html-tech-lang/>. When a Web page uses
several languages, the default text-processing language is the language
which is used most. (If several languages are used equally, the first
language used should be chosen as the default human language.)

/Note: / For multilingual sites targeting Conformance Level A, the
Working Group strongly encourages developers to follow Success Criterion
3.1.2 as well even though that is a Level AA Success Criterion.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.1

This Success Criterion helps:

  *

    people who use screen readers or other technologies that convert
    text into synthetic speech;

  *

    people who find it difficult to read written material with fluency
    and accuracy, such as recognizing characters and alphabets or
    decoding words;

  *

    people with certain cognitive, language and learning disabilities
    who use text-to-speech software

  *

    people who rely on captions for synchronized media.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.1

  *

    *Example 1. A Web page with content in two languages*

    A Web page produced in Germany and written in HTML includes content
    in both German and English, but most of the content is in German.
    The default human language is identified as German (de) by the lang
    attribute on the html element.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Internationalization Best Practices: Specifying Language in XHTML &
    HTML Content <http://www.w3.org/TR/i18n-html-tech-lang/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.1 - Language of Page

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    H57: Using language attributes on the html element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H57> (HTML)

 2.

    FLASH13: Using HTML language attributes to specify language in Flash
    content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH13> (Flash)

 3.

    PDF16: Setting the default language using the /Lang entry in the
    document catalog of a PDF document
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF16> (PDF)

 4.

    PDF19: Specifying the language for a passage or phrase with the Lang
    entry in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF19> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    SVR5: Specifying the default language in the HTTP header
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SVR5> (SERVER)

  *

    Using http or the Content-Language meta tag for metadata (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

human language

    language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or
    tactile means) to communicate with humans

    /Note: /See also sign language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languagedef>.

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Language of Parts*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.2

    *3.1.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-other-lang-id>
    Language of Parts:* The human language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef> of
    each passage or phrase in the content can be programmatically
    determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>
    except for proper names, technical terms, words of indeterminate
    language, and words or phrases that have become part of the
    vernacular of the immediately surrounding text. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that user agents can
correctly present content written in multiple languages. This makes it
possible for user agents and assistive technologies to present content
according to the presentation and pronunciation rules for that language.
This applies to graphical browsers as well as screen readers, braille
displays, and other voice browsers.

Both assistive technologies and conventional user agents can render text
more accurately if the language of each passage of text is identified.
Screen readers can use the pronunciation rules of the language of the
text. Visual browsers can display characters and scripts in appropriate
ways. This is especially important when switching between languages that
read from left to right and languages that read from right to left, or
when text is rendered in a language that uses a different alphabet.
Users with disabilities who know all the languages used in the Web page
will be better able to understand the content when each passage is
rendered appropriately.

When no other language has been specified for a phrase or passage of
text, its human language is the default human language of the Web page
(see Success Criterion 3.1.1). So the human language of all content in
single language documents can be programmatically determined.

Individual words or phrases in one language can become part of another
language. For example, "rendezvous" is a French word that has been
adopted in English, appears in English dictionaries, and is properly
pronounced by English screen readers. Hence a passage of English text
may contain the word "rendezvous" without specifying that its human
language is French and still satisfy this Success Criterion. Frequently,
when the human language of text appears to be changing for a single
word, that word has become part of the language of the surrounding text.
Because this is so common in some languages, single words should be
considered part of the language of the surrounding text unless it is
clear that a change in language was intended. If there is doubt whether
a change in language is intended, consider whether the word would be
pronounced the same (except for accent or intonation) in the language of
the immediately surrounding text.

Most professions require frequent use of technical terms which may
originate from a foreign language. Such terms are usually not translated
to all languages. The universal nature of technical terms also
facilitate communication between professionals.

Some common examples of technical terms include: Homo sapiens, Alpha
Centauri, hertz, and habeas corpus.

Identifying changes in language is important for a number of reasons:

  *

    It allows braille translation software to follow changes in
    language, e.g., substitute control codes for accented characters,
    and insert control codes necessary to prevent erroneous creation of
    Grade 2 braille contractions.

  *

    Speech synthesizers that support multiple languages will be able to
    speak the text in the appropriate accent with proper pronunciation.
    If changes are not marked, the synthesizer will try its best to
    speak the words in the default language it works in. Thus, the
    French word for car, "voiture" would be pronounced "voyture" by a
    speech synthesizer that uses English as its default language.

  *

    Marking changes in language can benefit future developments in
    technology, for example users who are unable to translate between
    languages themselves will be able to use machines to translate
    unfamiliar languages.

  *

    Marking changes in language can also assist user agents in providing
    definitions using a dictionary.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.2

This Success Criterion helps:

  *

    people who use screen readers or other technologies that convert
    text into synthetic speech;

  *

    people who find it difficult to read written material with fluency
    and accuracy, such as recognizing characters and alphabets, decoding
    words, and understanding words and phrases;

  *

    people with certain cognitive, language and learning disabilities
    who use text-to-speech software;

  *

    people who rely on captions to recognize language changes in the
    soundtrack of synchronized media content.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.2

 1.

    *A German phrase in an English sentence. *

    In the sentence, "He maintained that the DDR (German Democratic
    Republic) was just a 'Treppenwitz der Weltgeschichte'," the German
    phrase 'Treppenwitz der Weltgeschichte' is marked as German.
    Depending on the markup language, English may either be marked as
    the language for the entire document except where specified, or
    marked at the paragraph level. When a screen reader encounters the
    German phrase, it changes pronunciation rules from English to German
    to pronounce the word correctly.

 2.

    *Alternative language links*

    An HTML Web page includes links to versions of the page in other
    languages (e.g., Deutsch, Français, Nederlands, Castellano, etc.).
    The text of each link is the name of the language, in that language.
    The language of each link is indicated via a |lang| attribute.

 3.

    *"Podcast" used in a French sentence.*

    Because "podcast" is part of the vernacular of the immediately
    surrounding text in the following excerpt, "À l'occasion de
    l'exposition "Energie éternelle. 1500 ans d'art indien", le Palais
    des Beaux-Arts de Bruxelles a lancé son premier podcast. Vous pouvez
    télécharger ce podcast au format M4A et MP3," no indication of
    language change is required.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Language tags in HTML and XML
    <http://www.w3.org/International/articles/language-tags/Overview.en.php>
    - W3C Internationalization Working Group

  *

    Internationalization Best Practices: Specifying Language in XHTML &
    HTML Content <http://www.w3.org/TR/i18n-html-tech-lang/>


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.2 - Language of
      Parts

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    H58: Using language attributes to identify changes in the human
    language <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H58>
    (HTML)

 2.

    FLASH13: Using HTML language attributes to specify language in Flash
    content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH13> (Flash)

 3.

    PDF19: Specifying the language for a passage or phrase with the Lang
    entry in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF19> (PDF)

 4.

    SL4: Declaring Discrete Silverlight Objects to Specify Language
    Parts in the HTML DOM
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL4>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    SL27: Using Language/Culture Properties as Exposed by Silverlight
    Applications and Assistive Technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL27>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    Making text that is not in the default human language of the Web
    page visually distinct (future link)

  *

    Giving the names of any languages used in foreign passages or
    phrases (future link)

  *

    Providing language markup on proper names to facilitate correct
    pronunciation by screen readers (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

human language

    language that is spoken, written or signed (through visual or
    tactile means) to communicate with humans

    /Note: /See also sign language
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#sign-languagedef>.

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Unusual Words*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.3

    *3.1.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-idioms>
    Unusual Words:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available for identifying specific definitions of words or phrases
    used in an unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#unusual-restricteddef>,
    including idioms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#idiomsdef> and
    jargon <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#jargondef>.
    (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

Certain disabilities make it difficult to understand nonliteral word
usage and specialized words or usage. Certain disabilities make it
difficult to understand figurative language or specialized usage.
Providing such mechanisms is vital for these audiences. Specialized
information intended for non-specialist readers is encouraged to satisfy
this Success Criterion, even when claiming only Single-A or Double-A
conformance.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.3

This Success Criterion may help people with cognitive, language and
learning disabilities who:

  *

    have difficulty decoding words

  *

    have difficulty understanding words and phrases

  *

    have difficulty using context to aid understanding

It would also help people with visual disabilities who:

  *

    lose context when zoomed-in with a screen magnifier


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.3

  *

    *Text that includes a definition for a word used in an unusual way.*

    Organize the list or "cascade" of dictionaries and other resources
    so that the definition search will find the intended definitions
    instead of displaying definitions from other sources in the
    "cascade." (The "cascade" lists the dictionaries and other reference
    materials in the order most likely to bring up the right definition.
    This controls the order to follow when searching for definitions.)

  *

    *Including definitions in the glossary.*

    WCAG 2.0 uses the word "text" in a specific way. Thus, when the word
    "text" is used within WCAG 2.0 it is linked to the definition of
    "text" provided in a glossary within the same Web page.

  *

    *The specific definition of a word is provided at the bottom of the
    page.*

    The internal link from the word to the corresponding definition is
    also provided within the page.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

/Note: /The inclusion of a product or vendor name in the list below does
not constitute an endorsement by the Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines Working Group or the Web Accessibility Initiative of the
World Wide Web Consortium. This list is provided simply for convenience
and to give users an idea of what resources may be available

  *

    Free bilingual dictionaries for a number of languages are available
    from the Freedict.org Web site <http://www.freedict.org/>. The
    dictionaries are of uneven quality and size as noted on the site.
    Retrieved 9 April 2005.

  *

    The WorldStar Free Dictionaries, Translators and Search Engines
    <http://www.stars21.com/index.html?lang=en&pname=african> site
    provides access to free on-line dictionaries and search engines in
    many languages. Retrieved 18 November 2005.

  *

    More dictionaries are at your dictionary
    <http://www.yourdictionary.com/>, freelang.com
    <http://www.freelang.com/> (in English, Spanish and French!) and
    many other places.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.3 - Unusual Words

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the word or phrase has a unique meaning within
          the Web page:

 1.

    G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an
    unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G101> for the
    first occurrence of the word or phrase in a Web page using one of
    the following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G55>

          o

            H40: Using definition lists
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H40>
            (HTML)

          o

            H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H60>
            (HTML)

      *

        G112: Using inline definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G112>

          o

            H54: Using the dfn element to identify the defining instance
            of a word
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H54>
            (HTML)

 2.

    G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an
    unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G101> for each
    occurrence of the word or phrase in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G55>

          o

            H40: Using definition lists
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H40>
            (HTML)

          o

            H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H60>
            (HTML)

      *

        G62: Providing a glossary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G62>

      *

        G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G70>


          Situation B: If the word or phrase means different things
          within the same Web page:

 1.

    G101: Providing the definition of a word or phrase used in an
    unusual or restricted way
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G101> for each
    occurrence of the word or phrase in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G55>

          o

            H40: Using definition lists
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H40>
            (HTML)

          o

            H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H60>
            (HTML)

      *

        G112: Using inline definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G112>

          o

            H54: Using the dfn element to identify the defining instance
            of a word
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H54>
            (HTML)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using markup and visual formatting to help users recognize words
    that have special meaning (future link)

  *

    Providing a voice-enabled dictionary search so that users who have
    difficulty typing or spelling can speak the word whose definition
    they need (future link)

  *

    Providing a sign language dictionary to help users who are deaf find
    the necessary definitions (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism for finding definitions for all words in text
    content (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to determine the meaning of each word or
    phrase in text content (future link)

  *

    Avoiding unusual foreign words (future link)

  *

    Using a series of dictionaries in cascading fashion to provide
    meanings (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

idiom

    phrase whose meaning cannot be deduced from the meaning of the
    individual words and the specific words cannot be changed without
    losing the meaning

    /Note: /idioms cannot be translated directly, word for word, without
    losing their (cultural or language-dependent) meaning.

    /Example 1: /In English, "spilling the beans" means "revealing a
    secret." However, "knocking over the beans" or "spilling the
    vegetables" does not mean the same thing.

    /Example 2: /In Japanese, the phrase "さじを投げる" literally
    translates into "he throws a spoon," but it means that there is
    nothing he can do and finally he gives up.

    /Example 3: /In Dutch, "Hij ging met de kippen op stok" literally
    translates into "He went to roost with the chickens," but it means
    that he went to bed early.

jargon

    words used in a particular way by people in a particular field

    /Example: /The word StickyKeys is jargon from the field of assistive
    technology/accessibility.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

used in an unusual or restricted way

    words used in such a way that requires users to know exactly which
    definition to apply in order to understand the content correctly

    /Example: /The term "gig" means something different if it occurs in
    a discussion of music concerts than it does in article about
    computer hard drive space, but the appropriate definition can be
    determined from context. By contrast, the word "text" is used in a
    very specific way in WCAG 2.0, so a definition is supplied in the
    glossary.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Abbreviations*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.4

    *3.1.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-located>
    Abbreviations:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> for
    identifying the expanded form or meaning of abbreviations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#abbreviationsdef> is
    available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users can access
the expanded form of abbreviations.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.4

This Success Criterion may help people who:

  *

    have difficulty decoding words;

  *

    rely on screen magnifiers (magnification may reduce contextual cues);

  *

    have limited memory;

  *

    have difficulty using context to aid understanding.

Abbreviations may confuse some readers in different ways:

  *

    Some abbreviations do not look like normal words and cannot be
    pronounced according to the usual rules of the language. For
    example, the English word "room" is abbreviated as "rm," which does
    not correspond to any English word or phoneme. The user has to know
    that "rm" is an abbreviation for the word "room" in order to say it
    correctly.

  *

    Sometimes, the same abbreviation means different things in different
    contexts. For example, in the English sentence "Dr. Johnson lives on
    Boswell Dr.," the first "Dr." is an abbreviation for "Doctor" and
    the second instance is an abbreviation for the word "Drive" (a word
    that means "street"). Users must be able to understand the context
    in order to know what the abbreviations mean.

  *

    Some acronyms spell common words but are used in different ways. For
    example, "JAWS" is an acronym for a screen reader whose full name is
    "Job Access with Speech." It is also a common English word referring
    to the part of the mouth that holds the teeth. The acronym is used
    differently than the common word.

  *

    Some acronyms sound like common words but are spelled differently.
    For example, the acronym for Synchronized Multimedia Integration
    Language, S M I L, is pronounced like the English word "smile."

It would also help people with visual disabilities who:

  *

    Lose context when zoomed-in with a screen magnifier


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.4

  *

    *An abbreviation whose expansion is provided the first time the
    abbreviation appears in the content.*

    The name, "World Wide Web Consortium," appears as the first heading
    on the organization's home page. The abbreviation, "W3C," is
    enclosed in parentheses in the same heading.

  *

    *A dictionary search form.*

    A Web site includes a search form provided by an on-line acronym
    service. Users enter an acronym and the form returns a list of
    possible expansions from the sources that it searched.

  *

    *A medical Web site.*

    A medical Web site provides information for both doctors and
    patients. The site includes a set of cascading dictionaries; a very
    specialized medical dictionary is first, followed by a second
    medical dictionary for the general public. The cascade also includes
    a list of acronyms and abbreviations that are unique to the site,
    and finally there is a standard dictionary as well. The standard
    dictionary at the end of the list provides definitions for most
    words in the text. The specialized medical dictionary yields
    definitions of unusual medical terms. Definitions for words that
    appear in more than one dictionary are listed in the order of the
    cascade. The meaning of acronyms and abbreviations is provided by
    the list of acronyms and abbreviations.

  *

    *Expanded forms of Abbreviations. *

    The expanded form of each abbreviation is available in a
    programmatically determinable manner. User agents that speak the
    text can use the expanded form to announce the abbreviation. Other
    user agents might make the expanded form available as a tooltip or
    as contextual help for the abbreviation.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Acronym finder <http://www.acronymfinder.com/> - You can search with
    the exact acronym, the beginning of the acronym, wildcards and
    reverse lookup.

  *

    Abbreviations.com <http://www.abbreviations.com/>.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.4 - Abbreviations

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the abbreviation has only one meaning within
          the Web page:

 1.

    G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G102> for the
    first occurrence of the abbreviation in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G97: Providing the first use of an abbreviation immediately
        before or after the expanded form
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G97>

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G55>

      *

        H28: Providing definitions for abbreviations by using the abbr
        element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H28> (HTML)

      *

        PDF8: Providing definitions for abbreviations via an E entry for
        a structure element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF8> (PDF)

 2.

    G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G102> for all
    occurrences of the abbreviation in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G55>

      *

        G62: Providing a glossary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G62>

      *

        H60: Using the link element to link to a glossary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H60> (HTML)

      *

        G70: Providing a function to search an online dictionary
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G70>

      *

        H28: Providing definitions for abbreviations by using the abbr
        element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H28> (HTML)

      *

        PDF8: Providing definitions for abbreviations via an E entry for
        a structure element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF8> (PDF)


          Situation B: If the abbreviation means different things within
          the same Web page:

 1.

    G102: Providing the expansion or explanation of an abbreviation
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G102> for all
    occurrences of abbreviations in a Web page using one of the
    following techniques:

      *

        G55: Linking to definitions
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G55>

      *

        H28: Providing definitions for abbreviations by using the abbr
        element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H28> (HTML)

      *

        PDF8: Providing definitions for abbreviations via an E entry for
        a structure element
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF8> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Using unique abbreviations in a Web page (future link)

  *

    Using visual formatting to help users recognize abbreviations
    (future link)

  *

    Providing access to a talking dictionary to support users who might
    have difficulty decoding written definitions (future link)

  *

    Providing a voice-enabled dictionary search so that users who have
    difficulty typing or spelling can speak the word whose definition
    they need (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

abbreviation

    shortened form of a word, phrase, or name where the abbreviation has
    not become part of the language

    /Note 1: /This includes initialisms and acronyms where:

     1.

        *initialisms* are shortened forms of a name or phrase made from
        the initial letters of words or syllables contained in that name
        or phrase

        /Note 1: /Not defined in all languages.

        /Example 1: /SNCF is a French initialism that contains the
        initial letters of the Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer, the
        French national railroad.

        /Example 2: /ESP is an initialism for extrasensory perception.

     2.

        *acronyms* are abbreviated forms made from the initial letters
        or parts of other words (in a name or phrase) which may be
        pronounced as a word

        /Example: /NOAA is an acronym made from the initial letters of
        the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration in the
        United States.

    /Note 2: /Some companies have adopted what used to be an initialism
    as their company name. In these cases, the new name of the company
    is the letters (for example, Ecma) and the word is no longer
    considered an abbreviation.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Reading Level*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.5

    *3.1.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-supplements>
    Reading Level:* When text requires reading ability more advanced
    than the lower secondary education level
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#lowseceddef> after
    removal of proper names and titles, supplemental content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#suppcontentdef>, or
    a version that does not require reading ability more advanced than
    the lower secondary education level, is available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

Content should be written as clearly and simply as possible. The intent
of this Success Criterion is:

  *

    to ensure that additional content is available to aid the
    understanding of difficult or complex text;

  *

    to establish a testable measure indicating when such additional
    content is required.

This Success Criterion helps people with reading disabilities while also
allowing authors to publish difficult or complex Web content. Text
difficulty is described in terms of the level of education required to
read the text. Education levels are defined according to the
International Standard Classification of Education [UNESCO] <#UNESCO>,
which was created to allow international comparison among systems of
education.

Difficult or complex text may be appropriate for most members of the
intended audience (that is, most of the people for whom the content has
been created). But there are people with disabilities, including reading
disabilities, even among highly educated users with specialized
knowledge of the subject matter. It may be possible to accommodate these
users by making the text more readable. If the text cannot be made more
readable, then supplemental content is needed. Supplemental content is
required when text demands reading ability more advanced than the lower
secondary education level—that is, more than nine years of school. Such
text presents severe obstacles to people with reading disabilities and
is considered difficult even for people without disabilities who have
completed upper secondary education.

Reading disabilities such as dyslexia make it difficult to recognize
written or printed words and associate them with the correct sounds.
This is called "decoding" the text. Decoding must be automatic in order
for people to read fluently. The act of decoding text word by word
consumes much of the mental energy that most people are able to use for
understanding what they read. Text that uses short, common words and
short sentences is easier to decode and usually requires less advanced
reading ability than text that uses long sentences and long or
unfamiliar words.

The education level required to read text content (also called
"readability") is measured by analyzing selected passages of text from
the Web page. If the Web page includes text written for different
purposes or different styles are used, the selected passages include
samples of the types of content in the Web page and the different styles
in which the content is written. (In many cases, the Web page contains
only one kind of text content—e.g., technical documentation, a legal
notice, marketing material, etc.—and all the content uses the same style.)

Educators can also measure the education level required to read text
content. For example, qualified teachers can evaluate text according to
local education standards to determine if it requires reading ability
beyond what is expected for students in the last year of lower secondary
education.

Because people's names, the names of cities or other proper names cannot
be changed to shorter names with fewer syllables, and because doing so
or just referring to everyone by pronouns can make sentences harder to
understand, the success criterion specifies that proper names can be
ignored or removed from the text before assessing whether it meets the
reading ability requirement. Titles refer to the name of documents,
books, movies, etc. Titles are removed or ignored for the analysis
because changing the words in titles might make the titles easier to
read but would make it impossible to understand the item to which the
title refers. This would make it harder to read and understand the
content. (e.g., a book, academic paper, article, etc.). Therefore,
titles are also exempted specifically.

When a Web page contains multiple languages, a readability result should
be calculated for each language that constitutes at least 5% of the
content and that is used in full sentences or paragraphs (not just
individual words or phrases). The overall readability of the page should
be judged on the language that yields the worst readability results.

The readability of content may also be determined by applying a
readability formula to the selected passage. Many (though not all)
readability formulas base their calculations on passages of 100 words.
Such formulas have been developed for many languages. The number of
words in the passage is counted and the length of the words is
determined by counting either the number of syllables or the number of
characters. Most readability formulas also count the number and length
of sentences. The average length of words and sentences in the content
is then used to calculate a readability score. (Some languages, such as
Japanese, may include multiple scripts within the same passage.
Readability formulas for these languages may use the number and length
of such "runs" in their calculations.) The result may be presented as a
number (for example, on a scale from 0-100) or as a grade level. These
results can then be interpreted using the education levels described in
the International Standard Classification of Education. Readability
formulas are available for at least some languages when running the
spell checkers in popular software if you specify in the options of this
engine that you want to have the statistics when it has finished
checking your documents.

Levels of educationPrimary education 	Lower secondary education 	Upper
secondary education 	Advanced education
First 6 years of school	7-9 years of school	10-12 years of school	More
than 12 years of school

Adapted from International Standard Classification of Education [UNESCO]
<#UNESCO>

/Note: /According to the Open Society Mental Health Initiative, the
concept of Easy to Read cannot be universal, and it will not be possible
to write a text that will suit the abilities of all people with literacy
and comprehension problems. Using the clearest and simplest language
appropriate is highly desirable, but the WCAG Working Group could not
find a way to test whether this had been achieved. The use of reading
level is a way to introduce testability into a Success Criterion that
encourages clear writing. Supplementary content can be a powerful
technique for people with some classes of cognitive disability.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.5

This Success Criterion may help people who:

  *

    Have difficulty comprehending and interpreting written language
    (e.g., articles, instructions, or newspapers in text or braille),
    for the purpose of obtaining general knowledge or specific information


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.5

 1.

    *A scientific journal including readable summaries of complex
    research articles*

    A scientific journal includes articles written in highly technical
    language aimed at specialists in the field. The journal's Table of
    Contents page includes a plain-language summary of each article. The
    summaries are intended for a general audience with eight years of
    school. The metadata for the journal uses the Dublin Core
    specification to identify the education level of the articles'
    intended audience as "advanced," and the education level of the
    intended audience for the summaries as "lower secondary education."

 2.

    *Medical information for members of the public.*

    A medical school operates a Web site that explains recent medical
    and scientific discoveries. The articles on the site are written for
    people without medical training. Each article uses the Dublin Core
    metadata specification to identify the education level of the
    intended audience as "lower secondary education" and includes the
    Flesch Reading Ease score for the article. A link on each page
    displays the education level and other metadata. No supplemental
    content is required because people who read at the lower secondary
    education level can read the articles.

 3.

    *An e-learning application. *

    An on-line course about Spanish cultural history includes a unit on
    Moorish architecture. The unit includes text written for students
    with different reading abilities. Photographs and drawings of
    buildings illustrate architectural concepts and styles. Graphic
    organizers are used to illustrate complex relationships, and an
    audio version using synthetic speech is available. The metadata for
    each version describes the academic level of the content and
    includes a readability score based on formulas developed for
    Spanish-language text. The learning application uses this metadata
    and metadata about the students to provide versions of instructional
    content that match the needs of individual students.

 4.

    *Science information that requires a reading ability at the lower
    secondary education level.*

    The text below (116 words total) requires a reading ability of grade
    4.2 in the United States according to the Flesch-Kincaid formula. In
    the US, grade 4.2 is at the primary education level.

    Science is about testing — and about looking closely. Some
    scientists use microscopes to take a close look. We're going to use
    a simple piece of paper.

    Here's what you do: Print this page and cut out the square to make a
    "window" one inch square. (It's easiest to fold the page in half
    before you cut.)

    Choose something interesting: a tree trunk, a leaf, flower, the soil
    surface, or a slice of soil from a shovel.

    Put your window over the thing and look at it closely. Take your
    time — this is not a race.

    To help you see more details, draw a picture of what's inside your
    square.

    Now let's think about what you've found.

    (Source: Howard Hughes Medical Institute "CoolScience for Kids"
    Project)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    The Plain Language Association INternational (PLAIN) Web site
    provides many useful resources to help writers produce documents
    that communicate clearly in a variety of cultural and rhetorical
    contexts. Refer to: http://plainlanguagenetwork.org/.

  *

    The US Government's plain language Web site
    <http://www.plainlanguage.gov/> provides general information about
    plain language as well as information about use of plain language in
    US Government documents, including legal requirements

  *

    The Plain English Campaign Web site <http://www.plainenglish.co.uk/>
    provides useful information and guidance for authors writing in
    English.

  *

    Juicy Studio's Readability Test
    <http://juicystudio.com/services/readability.php> analyzes the
    readability of all rendered content.

  *

    Entry for Audience Education Level. Using Dublin Core – Dublin Core
    Qualifiers
    <http://dublincore.org/documents/usageguide/qualifiers.shtml>

  *

    IMS Learner Information Packaging Model Information Specification,
    Table 6.3 "accessibility" learner information data structure
    detailed description
    <http://www.imsglobal.org/profiles/lipinfo01.html#tab6.3>

  *

    TextQuest.de
    <http://www.textquest.de/pages/en/analysis-of-texts/readability-analysis.php>
    lists references for readability formulas for different languages,
    including English, German, Spanish, Dutch, French, and Swedish.

  *

    Richtlijnen Keurmerk Makkelijk Lezen
    <http://taalunieversum.org/publicaties/geletterd_in_de_lage_landen/richtlijnen.php>
    are the guidelines used by the Stichting Makkelijk Lezen (Easy
    Reading Foundation).

  *

    Leesbaar Nederlands <http://www.leesbaarnederlands.nl/> ("Readable
    Dutch") contains guidelines for writing text that is accessible for
    people with a reading disability. These guidelines address language,
    content and design.

  *

    European Easy-to-Read Guidelines <http://inclusion-europe.eu/>

  *

    Flesch-Kincaid Readability Test
    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flesch%E2%80%93Kincaid_readability_tests>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.5 - Reading Level

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G86: Providing a text summary that can be understood by people with
    lower secondary education level reading ability
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G86>

 2.

    G103: Providing visual illustrations, pictures, and symbols to help
    explain ideas, events, and processes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G103>

 3.

    G79: Providing a spoken version of the text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G79>

 4.

    G153: Making the text easier to read
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G153>

 5.

    G160: Providing sign language versions of information, ideas, and
    processes that must be understood in order to use the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G160>

/Note: /Different sites may address this Success Criterion in different
ways. An audio version of the content may be helpful to some users. For
some people who are deaf, a sign language version of the page may be
easier to understand than a written language version since sign language
may be their first language. Some sites may decide to do both or other
combinations. No technique will help all users who have difficulty. So
different techniques are provided as sufficient techniques here for
authors trying to make their sites more accessible. Any numbered
technique or combination above can be used by a particular site and it
is considered sufficient by the Working Group.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing text for navigational and landing pages that requires
    reading ability that is less advanced than the lower secondary
    education level (future link)

  *

    Providing text for interior pages that requires reading ability at
    the lower secondary education level (future link)

  *

    Including content summaries in metadata (future link)

  *

    Using the clearest and simplest language appropriate for the content
    (future link)

  *

    Using RDF to associate supplements with primary content (future link)

  *

    Providing a clear representational image on the site's home page
    (future link)

  *

    Clearly marking, by use of text or icon, content which has been
    optimized for easy reading (future link)

  *

    Using sentences that contain no redundant words, that is, words that
    do not change the meaning of the sentence (future link)

  *

    Using sentences that contain no more than two conjunctions (future
    link)

  *

    Using sentences that are no longer than the typical accepted length
    for secondary education (Note: In English that is 25 words) (future
    link)

  *

    Using sentences that do not contain complex words or phrases that
    could be replaced with more commonly used words without changing the
    meaning of the sentence (future link)

  *

    Providing summaries for different sections of text (future link)

  *

    Using metadata to associate alternatives at different reading
    levels. (future link)

  *

    Using the Dublin Core accessibility element to associate text
    content with text, graphical, or spoken supplements (future link)

  *

    Using the ISO AfA accessibility element to associate text content
    with text, graphical, or spoken supplements (future link)

  *

    Using the IMS accessibility element to associate text content with
    text, graphical, or spoken supplements (future link)

  *

    Making metadata viewable by humans (future link)

      o

        EXAMPLE: Providing, in metadata, URI(s) that point to a
        pre-primary-reading-level and a primary-reading-level text
        transcript of a new scientific discovery advanced-reading-level
        article.

  *

    Providing progressive complexity for site and page content (future
    link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

lower secondary education level

    the two or three year period of education that begins after
    completion of six years of school and ends nine years after the
    beginning of primary education
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#primseceddef>

    /Note: /This definition is based on the International Standard
    Classification of Education [UNESCO] <#UNESCO>.

supplemental content

    additional content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
    illustrates or clarifies the primary content

    /Example 1: / An audio version of a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Example 2: / An illustration of a complex process
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>.

    /Example 3: / A paragraph summarizing the major outcomes and
    recommendations made in a research study.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Pronunciation*:
    Understanding SC 3.1.6

    *3.1.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#meaning-pronunciation>
    Pronunciation:* A mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available for identifying specific pronunciation of words where
    meaning of the words, in context, is ambiguous without knowing the
    pronunciation. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help people who are blind,
people who have low vision, and people with reading disabilities to
understand content in cases where meaning depends on pronunciation.
Often words or characters have different meanings, each with its own
pronunciation. The meaning of such words or characters can usually be
determined from the context of the sentence. However, for more complex
or ambiguous sentences, or for some languages, the meaning of the word
cannot be easily determined or determined at all without knowing the
pronunciation. When the sentence is read aloud and the screen reader
reads the word using the wrong pronunciation, it can be even more
difficult to understand than when read visually. When words are
ambiguous or indeterminate unless the pronunciation is known, then
providing some means of determining the pronunciation is needed.

For example, in the English language heteronyms are words that are
spelled the same but have different pronunciations and meanings, such as
the words desert (abandon) and desert (arid region). If the proper
pronunciation can be determined from the context of the sentence, then
nothing is required. If it cannot then some mechanism for determining
the proper pronunciation would be required. Additionally, in some
languages certain characters can be pronounced in different ways. In
Japanese, for example, there are characters like Han characters(Kanji)
that have multiple pronunciations. Screen readers may speak the
characters incorrectly without the information on pronunciation. When
read incorrectly, the content will not make sense to users.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.1.6

This Success Criterion may help people who:

  *

    have difficulty decoding words

  *

    have difficulty using context to aid understanding

  *

    use technologies that read the words aloud


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.1.6

  *

    *Giving the reading of a person's name.*

    Web content in Japanese provides kana (Japanese phonetic syllabary
    characters) written next to Han characters (Kanji) show the
    pronunciation of a person's name. The kana is provided to users in
    parentheses right after the word. Giving the reading of the words
    written in Han characters (Kanji) allows both sighted users and
    screen readers to read/pronounce the words correctly. Note that
    screen readers will speak the word twice: the Han characters (Kanji)
    that can be pronounced in a wrong way are read first and then kana
    is spoken in order to provide the correct reading.

  *

    *Showing the reading of the words by |ruby| element.*

    Web content using XHTML 1.1 provides kana (phonetic syllabary
    characters) written above the characters to show the reading
    (pronunciation) of the words by using the |ruby| element.

  *

    *Providing sound files of the pronunciation.*

    A document includes some words whose meaning cannot be determined
    without knowing the correct pronunciation. Each word is linked to a
    sound file that gives the correct pronunciation. Users can select
    these links to find out how to pronounce the words.

  *

    *Including pronunciation information in the glossary.*

    A Web page includes a glossary section. Some items in the glossary
    include pronunciation information as well as definitions. Words in
    the content whose meaning cannot be determined without knowing their
    pronunciation are linked to the appropriate entries in the glossary.

  *

    *Text that includes pronunciation information for characters shared
    by several languages but pronounced differently in each language*

    A Japanese university Web site includes several short phrases quoted
    from scholarly texts in Chinese and Korean. The quotations are
    written using the same script as the Japanese text. Pronunciation
    information is provided to show the correct reading of the Chinese
    and Korean characters.

/Note: /For Japanese, the |ruby| element is used for showing the
"reading" rather than "pronunciation."


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.1.6 - Pronunciation

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G120: Providing the pronunciation immediately following the word
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G120>

 2.

    G121: Linking to pronunciations
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G121>

 3.

    G62: Providing a glossary
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G62> that
    includes pronunciation information for words that have a unique
    pronunciation in the content and have meaning that depends on
    pronunciation

 4.

    G163: Using standard diacritical marks that can be turned off
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G163>

 5.

    H62: Using the ruby element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H62> (HTML)
    (XHTML 1.1)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.1.6

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing pronunciations in a sound file, so that users can listen
    to the pronunciations of the word (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism for finding pronunciations for all foreign
    words in text content (future link)

  *

    Providing a mechanism to determine the pronunciations of each word
    or phrase in text content (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.1.6

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.1.6 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Predictable*:
    Understanding Guideline 3.2

    *Guideline 3.2: * Make Web pages appear and operate in predictable
    ways.


      Intent of Guideline 3.2

The intent of this Guideline is to help users with disabilities by
presenting content in a predictable order from Web page to Web page and
by making the behavior of functional and interactive components
predictable. It is difficult for some users to form an overview of the
Web page: screen readers present content as a one-dimensional stream of
synthetic speech that makes it difficult to understand spatial
relationships. Users with cognitive limitations may become confused if
components appear in different places on different pages.

For example, people who use screen magnifiers see only part of the
screen at any point in time; a consistent layout makes it easier for
them to find navigation bars and other components. Placing repeated
components in the same relative order within a set of Web pages allows
users with reading disabilities to focus on an area of the screen rather
than spending additional time decoding the text of each link. Users with
limited use of their hands can more easily determine how to complete
their tasks using the fewest keystrokes.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 3.2 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Positioning labels to maximize predictability of relationships


    *On Focus*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.1

    *3.2.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-receive-focus>
    On Focus:* When any component receives focus, it does not initiate a
    change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>.
    (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that functionality is
predictable as visitors navigate their way through a document. Any
component that is able to trigger an event when it receives focus must
not change the context. Examples of changing context when a component
receives focus include, but are not limited to:

  *

    forms submitted automatically when a component receives focus;

  *

    new windows launched when a component receives focus;

  *

    focus is changed to another component when that component receives
    focus;

Focus may be moved to a control either via the keyboard (e.g. tabbing to
a control) or the mouse (e.g. clicking on a text field). Moving the
mouse over a control does not move the focus unless scripting implements
this behavior. Note that for some types of controls, clicking on a
control may also activate the control (e.g. button), which may, in turn,
initiate a change in context.

/Note: /What is meant by "component" here is also sometimes called "user
interface element" or "user interface component''.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.1

  *

    This Success Criterion helps people with visual disabilities,
    cognitive limitations, and motor impairments by reducing the chance
    that a change of context will occur unexpectedly.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.1

  *

    *Example 1: A dropdown menu*

    A dropdown menu on a page allows users to choose between jump
    destinations. If the person uses the keyboard to move down to a
    choice and activates it (with a spacebar or enter key) it will jump
    to a new page. However, if the person moves down to a choice and
    either hits the escape or the tab key to move out of the pulldown
    menu – it does not jump to a new screen as the focus shifts out of
    the dropdown menu.

  *

    *Example of a Failure: A help dialog *

    When a field receives focus, a help dialog window describing the
    field and providing options opens. As a keyboard user tabs through
    the Web page, the dialog opens, moving the keyboard focus away from
    the control every time the user attempts to tab past the field.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.1 - On Focus

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G107: Using "activate" rather than "focus" as a trigger for changes
    of context <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G107>

/Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>. This
success criterion is automatically met if changes in content are not
also changes of context.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Not causing persistent changes of state or value when a component
    receives focus, or providing an alternate means to reset any changes
    (future link)

  *

    G200: Opening new windows and tabs from a link only when necessary
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G200>

  *

    G201: Giving users advanced warning when opening a new window
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G201>


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F52: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.1 and 3.2.5 due to opening a
    new window as soon as a new page is loaded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F52>

  *

    F55: Failure of Success Criteria 2.1.1, 2.4.7, and 3.2.1 due to
    using script to remove focus when focus is received
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F55>


      Key Terms

changes of context

    major changes in the content of the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that, if
    made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to
    view the entire page simultaneously

    Changes in context include changes of:

     1.

        user agent
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>;

     2.

        viewport
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#viewportdef>;

     3.

        focus;

     4.

        content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
        changes the meaning of the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context.
    Changes in content, such as an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a
    tab control do not necessarily change the context, unless they also
    change one of the above (e.g., focus).

    /Example: /Opening a new window, moving focus to a different
    component, going to a new page (including anything that would look
    to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly
    re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *On Input*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.2

    *3.2.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-unpredictable-change>
    On Input:* Changing the setting of any user interface component
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>
    does not automatically cause a change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>
    unless the user has been advised of the behavior before using the
    component. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that entering data or
selecting a form control has predictable effects. Changing the setting
of any user interface component is changing some aspect in the control
that will persist when the user is no longer interacting with it. So
checking a checkbox, entering text into a text field, or changing the
selected option in a list control changes its setting, but activating a
link or a button does not. Changes in context can confuse users who do
not easily perceive the change or are easily distracted by changes.
Changes of context are appropriate only when it is clear that such a
change will happen in response to the user's action.

/Note: /This Success Criterion covers changes in context due to changing
the setting of a control. Clicking on links or tabs in a tab control is
activating the control, not changing the setting of that control.

/Note: /What is meant by "component" and "user interface component" here
is also sometimes called "user interface element".


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.2

  *

    This Success Criterion helps users with disabilities by making
    interactive content more predictable. Unexpected changes of context
    can be so disorienting for users with visual disabilities or
    cognitive limitations that they are unable to use the content.

  *

    Individuals who are unable to detect changes of context are less
    likely to become disoriented while navigating a site. For example:

      o

        Individuals who are blind or have low vision may have difficulty
        knowing when a visual context change has occurred, such as a new
        window popping up. In this case, warning users of context
        changes in advance minimizes confusion when the user discovers
        that the back button no longer behaves as expected.

  *

    Some individuals with low vision, with reading and intellectual
    disabilities, and others who have difficulty interpreting visual
    cues may benefit from additional cues in order to detect changes of
    context.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.2

  *

    A form is provided for creating calendar entries in a Web based
    calendaring and scheduling application. Along with the standard
    fields for subject, time and location, there is a set of radio
    buttons to select the type of calendar entry to create. The calendar
    entry type can be meeting, appointment or reminder. If the user
    selects the radio for meeting, additional fields are displayed on
    the page for entering the meeting participants. Different fields
    appear if the reminder button is chosen. Because only parts of the
    entry change and the overall structure remains the same the basic
    context remains for the user.

  *

    A form contains fields representing US phone numbers. All of the
    numbers have a three digit area code followed by a three digit
    prefix and finally a four digit number, and each part of the phone
    number is entered into a separate field. When the user completes the
    entry of one field and enter the first digit of the next field, the
    focus automatically moves to the next field of the phone number.
    This behavior of phone fields is described for the user at the
    beginning of the form.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.2 - On Input

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G80: Providing a submit button to initiate a change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G80> using a
    technology-specific technique listed below

      *

        H32: Providing submit buttons
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H32> (HTML)

      *

        H84: Using a button with a select element to perform an action
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H84> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH4: Providing submit buttons in Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH4>
        (Flash)

      *

        PDF15: Providing submit buttons with the submit-form action in
        PDF forms
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF15> (PDF)

      *

        SL10: Implementing a Submit-Form Pattern in Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL10>
        (Silverlight)

 2.

    G13: Describing what will happen before a change to a form control
    that causes a change of context to occur is made
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G13>

 3.

    SCR19: Using an onchange event on a select element without causing a
    change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR19>
    (Scripting)

/Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>. This
success criterion is automatically met if changes in content are not
also changes of context.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G201: Giving users advanced warning when opening a new window
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G201>


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F36: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.2 due to automatically
    submitting a form and presenting new content without prior warning
    when the last field in the form is given a value
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F36>

  *

    F37: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.2 due to launching a new
    window without prior warning when the selection of a radio button,
    check box or select list is changed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F37>


      Key Terms

changes of context

    major changes in the content of the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that, if
    made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to
    view the entire page simultaneously

    Changes in context include changes of:

     1.

        user agent
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>;

     2.

        viewport
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#viewportdef>;

     3.

        focus;

     4.

        content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
        changes the meaning of the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context.
    Changes in content, such as an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a
    tab control do not necessarily change the context, unless they also
    change one of the above (e.g., focus).

    /Example: /Opening a new window, moving focus to a different
    component, going to a new page (including anything that would look
    to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly
    re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Consistent Navigation*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.3

    *3.2.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-locations>
    Consistent Navigation:* Navigational mechanisms that are repeated on
    multiple Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> within a
    set of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#set-of-web-pagesdef>
    occur in the same relative order
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#samerelorderdef>
    each time they are repeated, unless a change is initiated by the
    user. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to encourage the use of
consistent presentation and layout for users who interact with repeated
content within a set of Web pages and need to locate specific
information or functionality more than once. Individuals with low vision
who use screen magnification to display a small portion of the screen at
a time often use visual cues and page boundaries to quickly locate
repeated content. Presenting repeated content in the same order is also
important for visual users who use spatial memory or visual cues within
the design to locate repeated content.

It is important to note that the use of the phrase "same order" in this
section is not meant to imply that subnavigation menus cannot be used or
that blocks of secondary navigation or page structure cannot be used.
Instead, this Success Criterion is intended to assist users who interact
with repeated content across Web pages to be able to predict the
location of the content they are looking for and find it more quickly
when they encounter it again.

Users may initiate a change in the order by using adaptive user agents
or by setting preferences so that the information is presented in a way
that is most useful to them.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.3

  *

    Ensuring that repeated components occur in the same order on each
    page of a site helps users become comfortable that they will able to
    predict where they can find things on each page. This helps users
    with *cognitive limitations*, users with *low vision*, users with
    *intellectual disabilities*, and also those who are *blind*.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.3

  *

    *A consistently located control*

    A search field is the last item on every Web page in a site. users
    can quickly locate the search function.

  *

    *An expanding navigation menu*

    A navigation menu includes a list of seven items with links to the
    main sections of a site. When a user selects one of these items, a
    list of subnavigation items is inserted into the top-level
    navigation menu.

  *

    *Consistently positioned skip navigation controls*

    A "skip navigation" (or "skip to main content") link is included as
    the first link on every page in a Web site. The link allows users to
    quickly bypass heading information and navigational content and
    begin interacting with the main content of a page.

  *

    *Skip to navigation link*

    Navigational content is consistently located at the end of each page
    in a set of Web pages. A "skip to navigation" link is consistently
    located at the beginning of each page so that keyboard users can
    easily locate it when needed.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Detweiler, M.C. and Omanson, R.C. (1996), Ameritech Web Page User
    Interface Standards and Design Guidelines.

  *

    Understanding disability issues when designing Web sites
    <http://www-03.ibm.com/able/access_ibm/disability.html>.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.3 - Consistent
      Navigation

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G61: Presenting repeated components in the same relative order each
    time they appear
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G61>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    PDF14: Providing running headers and footers in PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF14> (PDF)

  *

    PDF17: Specifying consistent page numbering for PDF documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF17> (PDF)

  *

    Using templates to ensure consistency across multiple Web pages
    (future link)

  *

    Creating layout, positioning, layering, and alignment (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F66: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.3 due to presenting navigation
    links in a different relative order on different pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F66>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

same relative order

    same position relative to other items

    /Note: /Items are considered to be in the same relative order even
    if other items are inserted or removed from the original order. For
    example, expanding navigation menus may insert an additional level
    of detail or a secondary navigation section may be inserted into the
    reading order.

set of Web pages

    collection of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    share a common purpose and that are created by the same author,
    group or organization

    /Note: /Different language versions would be considered different
    sets of Web pages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Consistent Identification*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.4

    *3.2.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-consistent-functionality>
    Consistent Identification:* Components that have the same
    functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#samefunctionalitydef> within
    a set of Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> are
    identified consistently. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure consistent
identification of functional components that appear repeatedly within a
set of Web pages. A strategy that people who use screen readers use when
operating a Web site is to rely heavily on their familiarity with
functions that may appear on different Web pages. If identical functions
have different labels on different Web pages, the site will be
considerably more difficult to use. It may also be confusing and
increase the cognitive load for people with cognitive limitations.
Therefore, consistent labeling will help.

This consistency extends to the text alternatives. If icons or other
non-text items have the same functionality, then their text alternatives
should be consistent as well.

If there are two components on a web page that both have the same
functionality as a component on another page in a set of web pages, then
all 3 must be consistent. Hence the two on the same page will be consistent.

While it is desirable and best practice always to be consistent within a
single web page, 3.2.4 only addresses consistency within a set of web
pages where something is repeated on more than one page in the set.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.4

  *

    People who learn functionality on one page on a site can find the
    desired functions on other pages if they are present.

  *

    When non-text content is used in a consistent way to identify
    components with the same functionality, people with difficulty
    reading text or detecting text alternatives can interact with the
    Web without depending on text alternatives.

  *

    People who depend on text alternatives can have a more predictable
    experience. They can also search for the component if it has a
    consistent label on different pages.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.4

  *

    *Example 1: Document Icon*

    A document icon is used to indicate document download throughout a
    site. The text alternative for the icon always begins with the word
    “Download," followed by a shortened form of the document title.
    Using different text alternatives to identify document names for
    different documents is a consistent use of text alternatives.

  *

    *Example 2: Check Mark*

    A check mark icon functions as "approved", on one page but as
    "included" on another. Since they serve different functions, they
    have different text alternatives.

  *

    *Example 3: Consistent references to other pages*

    A Web site publishes articles on-line. Each article spans multiple
    Web pages and each page contains a link to the first page, the next
    page and the previous page of the article. If the references to the
    next page read "page 2", "page 3", "page 4" etcetera, the labels are
    not the same but they are consistent. Therefore, these references
    are not failures of this Success Criterion.

  *

    *Example 4: Icons with similar functions*

    An e-commerce application uses a printer icon that allows the user
    to print receipts and invoices. In one part of the application, the
    printer icon is labeled "Print receipt" and is used to print
    receipts, while in another part it is labeled "Print invoice" and is
    used to print invoices. The labeling is consistent ("Print x"), but
    the labels are different to reflect the different functions of the
    icons. Therefore, this example does not fail the Success Criterion.

  *

    *Example 5: Save icon*

    A common "save" icon is used through out the site where page save
    function is provided on multiple Web pages.

  *

    Example 6: Icon and adjacent link to same destination

    An icon with alt text and a link are next to each other and go to
    the same location. The best practice would be to group them into one
    link as per H2: Combining adjacent image and text links for the same
    resource <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H2>
    (HTML) . However if they are visually positioned one above the other
    but separated in the source, this may not be possible. To meet the
    Success Criterion, the link text for these two links need only be
    consistent, not identical. But best practice is to have identical
    text so that when users encounter the second one, it is clear that
    it goes to the same place as the first.

  *

    *Example 7: Example of a Failure*

    A submit "search" button on one Web page and a "find" button on
    another Web page both have a field to enter a term and list topics
    in the Web site related to the term submitted. In this case, the
    buttons have the same functionality but are not labeled consistently.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.4 - Consistent
      Identification

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G197: Using labels, names, and text alternatives consistently for
    content that has the same functionality
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G197> *AND*
    following the sufficient techniques for Success Criterion 1.1.1
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/text-equiv-all.html#text-equiv-all-techniques-head>
    and sufficient techniques for Success Criterion 4.1.2
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/ensure-compat-rsv.html#ensure-compat-rsv-techniques-head>
    for providing labels, names, and text alternatives.

/Note 1: /Text alternatives that are "consistent" are not always
"identical." For instance, you may have an graphical arrow at the bottom
of a Web page that links to the next Web page. The text alternative may
say "Go to page 4." Naturally, it would not be appropriate to repeat
this exact text alternative on the next Web page. It would be more
appropriate to say "Go to page 5". Although these text alternatives
would not be identical, they would be consistent, and therefore would
satisfy this Success Criterion.

/Note 2: / A single non-text-content-item may be used to serve different
functions. In such cases, different text alternatives are necessary and
should be used. Examples can be commonly found with the use of icons
such as check marks, cross marks, and traffic signs. Their functions can
be different depending on the context of the Web page. A check mark icon
may function as "approved", "completed", or "included", to name a few,
depending on the situation. Using "check mark" as text alternative
across all Web pages does not help users understand the function of the
icon. Different text alternatives can be used when the same non-text
content serves multiple functions.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Ensuring that the text alternative conveys the function of the
    component and what will happen when the user activates it (future link)

  *

    Using the same non-text content for a given function whenever
    possible (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F31: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.4 due to using two different
    labels for the same function on different Web pages within a set of
    Web pages <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F31>


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

same functionality

    same result when used

    /Example: /A submit "search" button on one Web page and a "find"
    button on another Web page may both have a field to enter a term and
    list topics in the Web site related to the term submitted. In this
    case, they would have the same functionality but would not be
    labeled consistently.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Change on Request*:
    Understanding SC 3.2.5

    *3.2.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#consistent-behavior-no-extreme-changes-context>
    Change on Request:* Changes of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-changedef>
    are initiated only by user request or a mechanism
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
    available to turn off such changes. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to encourage design of Web
content that gives users full control of changes of context. This
Success Criterion aims to eliminate potential confusion that may be
caused by unexpected changes of context such as automatic launching of
new windows, automatic submission of forms after selecting an item from
a list, etcetera. Such unexpected changes of context may cause
difficulties for people with motor impairments, people with low vision,
people who are blind, and people with certain cognitive limitations.

Some types of change of context are not disruptive to some users, or
actively benefit some users. For example, single-switch users rely on
context changes that are animated by the system, and the preferences of
low-vision users may vary depending on how much of the content they can
see at once and how much of the session structure they can retain in
working memory. Some types of content, such as slide shows, require the
ability to change context in order to provide the intended user
experience. Content that initiates changes of context automatically only
when user preferences allow can conform to this Success Criterion.

/Note: /It is possible for more than one change of context to occur
simultaneously. For example, clicking on a link which automatically
opens a new window is an example of two separate changes of context
related to the change in content and to the change in the viewport
(window). The change in the content in this case is initiated by user
request when they click on the link, but unless the user can be aware
that the link will open in a new window then that change of context
cannot be regarded as user-initiated.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.2.5

  *

    Individuals who are unable to detect changes of context or may not
    realize that the context has changed are less likely to become
    disoriented while navigating a site. For example:

      o

        individuals who are blind or have low vision may have difficulty
        knowing when a visual context change has occurred, such as a new
        window popping up. In this case, warning users of context
        changes in advance minimizes confusion when the user discovers
        that the back button no longer behaves as expected.

  *

    Some individuals with low vision, with reading and intellectual
    disabilities, and who have difficulty interpreting visual cues may
    benefit from additional cues in order to detect changes of context.

  *

    People with certain *cognitive limitations* do not get confused if
    automatic redirects are performed by the Web server instead of the
    browser.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.2.5

  *

    *an "update now" button*

    Instead of automatically updating the content, the author provides
    an "Update now" button that requests a refresh of the content.

  *

    *An automatic redirection*

    A user is automatically redirected from an old page to a new page in
    such a way that he or she never realizes the redirect has occurred.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Use standard redirects: don't break the back button!
    <http://www.w3.org/QA/Tips/reback> (W3C QA Tip).

  *

    HTTP/1.1 Status Code Definitions: Redirection 3xx
    <http://www.w3.org/Protocols/rfc2616/rfc2616-sec10.html#sec10.3>.


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.2.5 - Change on
      Request

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If the Web page allows automatic updates:

 1.

    G76: Providing a mechanism to request an update of the content
    instead of updating automatically
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G76>


          Situation B: If automatic redirects are possible:

 1.

    SVR1: Implementing automatic redirects on the server side instead of
    on the client side
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SVR1> (SERVER)

 2.

    G110: Using an instant client-side redirect
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G110> using
    one of the following techniques:

      *

        H76: Using meta refresh to create an instant client-side
        redirect
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H76> (HTML)


          Situation C: If the Web page uses pop-up windows:

 1.

    Including pop-up windows using one of the following techniques:

      *

        H83: Using the target attribute to open a new window on user
        request and indicating this in link text
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H83> (HTML)

      *

        SCR24: Using progressive enhancement to open new windows on user
        request
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR24>
        (Scripting)


          Situation D: If using an onchange event on a select element:

 1.

    SCR19: Using an onchange event on a select element without causing a
    change of context
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR19>
    (Scripting)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.2.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Opening new windows by providing normal hyperlinks without the
    target attribute (future link), because many user agents allow users
    to open links in another window or tab.

  *

    G200: Opening new windows and tabs from a link only when necessary
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G200>


        Common Failures for SC 3.2.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.2.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F60: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to launching a new
    window when a user enters text into an input field
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F60>

  *

    F61: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to complete change of
    main content through an automatic update that the user cannot
    disable from within the content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F61>

  *

    F9: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to changing the context
    when the user removes focus from a form element
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F9>

  *

    F22: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.5 due to opening windows that
    are not requested by the user
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F22>

  *

    F52: Failure of Success Criterion 3.2.1 and 3.2.5 due to opening a
    new window as soon as a new page is loaded
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F52>

  *

    F41: Failure of Success Criterion 2.2.1, 2.2.4, and 3.2.5 due to
    using meta refresh to reload the page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F41>


      Key Terms

changes of context

    major changes in the content of the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that, if
    made without user awareness, can disorient users who are not able to
    view the entire page simultaneously

    Changes in context include changes of:

     1.

        user agent
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>;

     2.

        viewport
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#viewportdef>;

     3.

        focus;

     4.

        content
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef> that
        changes the meaning of the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>.

    /Note: /A change of content is not always a change of context.
    Changes in content, such as an expanding outline, dynamic menu, or a
    tab control do not necessarily change the context, unless they also
    change one of the above (e.g., focus).

    /Example: /Opening a new window, moving focus to a different
    component, going to a new page (including anything that would look
    to a user as if they had moved to a new page) or significantly
    re-arranging the content of a page are examples of changes of context.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Input Assistance*:
    Understanding Guideline 3.3

    *Guideline 3.3: * Help users avoid and correct mistakes.


      Intent of Guideline 3.3

Everyone makes mistakes. However, people with some disabilities have
more difficulty creating error-free input. In addition, it may be harder
for them to detect that they have made an error. Typical error
indication methods may not be obvious to them because of a limited field
of view, limited color perception, or use of assistive technology. This
guideline seeks to reduce the number of serious or irreversible errors
that are made, increase the likelihood that all errors will be noticed
by the user, and help users understand what they should do to correct an
error.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 3.3 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Hiding optional form fields (future link)


    *Error Identification*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.1

    *3.3.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-identified>
    Error Identification:* If an input error
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef> is
    automatically detected, the item that is in error is identified and
    the error is described to the user in text. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users are aware
that an error has occurred and can determine what is wrong. The error
message should be as specific as possible. In the case of an
unsuccessful form submission, re-displaying the form and indicating the
fields in error is insufficient for some users to perceive that an error
has occurred. Screen reader users, for example, will not know there was
an error until they encounter one of the indicators. They may abandon
the form altogether before encountering the error indicator, thinking
that the page simply is not functional. Per the definition in WCAG 2.0,
an "input error" is information provided by the user that is not
accepted. This includes:

  *

    information that is required by the web page but omitted by the user, or

  *

    information that is provided by the user but that falls outside the
    required data format or allowed values.

For example:

  *

    the user fails to enter the proper abbreviation in to state,
    province, region, etc. field;

  *

    the user enters a state abbreviation that is not a valid state;

  *

    the user enters a non existent zip or postal code;

  *

    the user enters a birth date 2 years in the future;

  *

    the user enters alphabetic characters or parentheses into their
    phone number field that only accepts numbers;

  *

    the user enters a bid that is below the previous bid or the minimum
    bid increment.

/Note: /If a user enters a value that is too high or too low, and the
coding on the page automatically changes that value to fall within the
allowed range, the user's error would still need to be described to them
as required by the success criterion. Such an error description telling
the person of the changed value would meet both this success criterion
(Error Identification) and Success Criterion 3.3.3 (Error Suggestion)
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/minimize-error-suggestions.html>.


The identification and description of an error can be combined with
programmatic information that user agents or assistive technologies can
use to identify an error and provide error information to the user. For
example, certain technologies can specify that the user's input must not
fall outside a specific range, or that a form field is required.
Currently, few technologies support this kind of programmatic
information, but the Success Criterion does not require, nor prevent it.

It is perfectly acceptable to indicate the error in other ways such as
image, color etc, in addition to the text description.

See also /Understanding Success Criterion 3.3.3 Error Suggestion
<#minimize-error-suggestions>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.1

  *

    Providing information about input errors in text allows users who
    are blind or colorblind to perceive the fact that an error occurred.

  *

    This Success Criterion may help people with cognitive, language, and
    learning disabilities who have difficulty understanding the meaning
    represented by icons and other visual cues.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.1

  *

    *Identifying errors in a form submission*

    An airline Web site offers a special promotion on discounted
    flights. The user is asked to complete a simple form that asks for
    personal information such as name, address, phone number, seating
    preference and e-mail address. If any of the fields of the form are
    either not completed or completed incorrectly, an alert is displayed
    notifying the user which field or fields were missing or incorrect.

    /Note: /This Success Criterion does not mean that color or text
    styles cannot be used to indicate errors. It simply requires that
    errors also be identified using text. In this example, two asterisks
    are used in addition to color.

  *

    *Providing multiple cues*

    The user fails to fill in two fields on the form. In addition to
    describing the error and providing a unique character to make it
    easy to search for the fields, the fields are highlighted in yellow
    to make it easier to visually search for them as well.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.1 - Error
      Identification

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a form contains fields for which information
          from the user is mandatory.

 1.

    G83: Providing text descriptions to identify required fields that
    were not completed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G83>

 2.

    ARIA21: Using Aria-Invalid to Indicate An Error Field
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA21> (ARIA)

 3.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 4.

    PDF5: Indicating required form controls in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF5> (PDF)

 5.

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL35>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: If information provided by the user is required
          to be in a specific data format or of certain values.

 1.

    ARIA18: Using aria-alertdialog to Identify Errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA18> (ARIA)

 2.

    ARIA19: Using ARIA role=alert or Live Regions to Identify Errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA19> (ARIA)

 3.

    ARIA21: Using Aria-Invalid to Indicate An Error Field
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA21> (ARIA)

 4.

    G84: Providing a text description when the user provides information
    that is not in the list of allowed values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G84>

 5.

    G85: Providing a text description when user input falls outside the
    required format or values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G85>

 6.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 7.

    SCR32: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the DOM <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR32>
    (Scripting)

 8.

    FLASH12: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the accessible description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH12> (Flash)

 9.

    PDF22: Indicating when user input falls outside the required format
    or values in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF22> (PDF)

10.

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL35>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G139: Creating a mechanism that allows users to jump to errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G139>

  *

    Validating form submissions on the server (future link)

  *

    Re-displaying a form with a summary of errors (future link)

  *

    Providing error notification as the user enters information (future
    link)

  *

    Including error notification information in the page title (future link)

  *

    Highlighting or visually emphasizing errors where they occur (future
    link)

  *

    Supplementing text with non-text content when reporting errors
    (future link)

  *

    G199: Providing success feedback when data is submitted successfully
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G199>

  *

    Using sounds to focus user's attention (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Labels or Instructions*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.2

    *3.3.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-cues>
    Labels or Instructions:* Labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#labeldef> or
    instructions are provided when content requires user input. (Level A)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this success criterion is to have content authors place
instructions or labels that identify the controls in a form so that
users know what input data is expected. Instructions or labels may also
specify data formats for fields especially if they are out of the
customary formats or if there are specific rules for correct input.
Content authors may also choose to make such instructions available to
users only when the individual control has focus especially when
instructions are long and verbose.

The intent of this Success Criterion is not to clutter the page with
unnecessary information but to provide important cues and instructions
that will benefit people with disabilities. Too much information or
instruction can be just as much of a hindrance as too little. The goal
is to make certain that enough information is provided for the user to
accomplish the task without undue confusion or navigation.

/Note: /When labels are provided for input objects, the input object's
relationship to the label (or to redundant text serving as the label)
must be programmatically determinable or available in text per
/Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships
<#content-structure-separation-programmatic>/.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.2

  *

    When label elements are associated with input elements the label is
    spoken by screen readers when the field receives focus and users
    with impaired motor control are helped by a larger clickable area
    for the control, since clicking on the label or the control will
    activate the control.

  *

    Field labels located in close proximity to the associated field
    assist users of screen magnifiers because the field and label are
    more likely to visible within the magnified area of the page.

  *

    Providing examples of expected data formats help users with
    cognitive, language and learning disabilities to enter information
    correctly.

  *

    Clearly identifying required fields prevents a keyboard only user
    from submitting an incomplete form and having to navigate the
    redisplayed form to find the uncompleted field and provide the
    missing information.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.2

  *

    A field which requires the user to enter the two character
    abbreviation for a US state has a link next to it which will popup
    an alphabetized list of state names and the correct abbreviation.

  *

    A field for entering a date contains initial text which indicates
    the correct format for the date.

  *

    A field for entering a given name is clearly labeled with "Given
    Name" and the field for family name is labeled "Family Name" to
    avoid confusion over which name is requested.

  *

    A U.S. phone number separates the area code, exchange, and number
    into three fields. Parentheses surround the area code field, and a
    dash separates the exchange and number fields. While the punctuation
    provides visual clues to those familiar with the U.S. telephone
    number format, the punctuation is not sufficient to label the
    fields. The single "Phone number" label also cannot label all three
    fields. To address this, the three fields are grouped in a
    |fieldset| with the |legend| "Phone number". Visual labels for the
    fields (beyond the punctuation) cannot be provided in the design, so
    invisible labels are provided with the "title" attribute to each of
    the three fields. The value of this attribute for the three fields
    are, respectively, "Area Code", "Exchange", and "Number".


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.2 - Labels or
      Instructions

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G131: Providing descriptive labels
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G131> *AND*
    one of the following:

      *

        ARIA1: Using the aria-describedby property to provide a
        descriptive label for user interface controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA1> (ARIA)

      *

        ARIA9: Using aria-labelledby to concatenate a label from several
        text nodes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA9> (ARIA)

      *

        ARIA17: Using grouping roles to identify related form controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA17>
        (ARIA)

      *

        G89: Providing expected data format and example
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G89>

      *

        G184: Providing text instructions at the beginning of a form or
        set of fields that describes the necessary input
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G184>

      *

        G162: Positioning labels to maximize predictability of
        relationships
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G162>

      *

        G83: Providing text descriptions to identify required fields
        that were not completed
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G83>

      *

        H90: Indicating required form controls using label or legend
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H90> (HTML)

      *

        FLASH10: Indicating required form controls in Flash
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH10>
        (Flash)

      *

        PDF5: Indicating required form controls in PDF forms
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF5> (PDF)

 2.

    H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form
    controls <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H44>
    (HTML)

 3.

    FLASH32: Using auto labeling to associate text labels with form
    controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH32> (Flash)

 4.

    FLASH29: Setting the label property for form components
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH29> (Flash)

 5.

    FLASH25: Labeling a form control by setting its accessible name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH25> (Flash)

 6.

    PDF10: Providing labels for interactive form controls in PDF
    documents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF10> (PDF)

 7.

    SL26: Using LabeledBy to Associate Labels and Targets in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL26>
    (Silverlight)

 8.

    H71: Providing a description for groups of form controls using
    fieldset and legend elements
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H71> (HTML)

 9.

    FLASH8: Adding a group name to the accessible name of a form control
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH8> (Flash)

10.

    H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when the
    label element cannot be used
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H65> (HTML)

11.

    SL8: Displaying HelpText in Silverlight User Interfaces
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL8>
    (Silverlight)

12.

    G167: Using an adjacent button to label the purpose of a field
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G167>

/Note: /The techniques at the end of the above list should be considered
"last resort" and only used when the other techniques cannot be applied
to the page. The earlier techniques are preferred because they increase
accessibility to a wider user group.


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G13: Describing what will happen before a change to a form control
    that causes a change of context to occur is made
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G13>

  *

    SL19: Providing User Instructions With AutomationProperties.HelpText
    in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL19>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    Providing linear form design and grouping similar items (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F82: Failure of Success Criterion 3.3.2 by visually formatting a set
    of phone number fields but not including a text label
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F82>


      Key Terms

label

    text <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#textdef> or
    other component with a text alternative
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#text-altdef> that is
    presented to a user to identify a component within Web content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#contentdef>

    /Note 1: / A label is presented to all users whereas the name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#namedef> may be
    hidden and only exposed by assistive technology. In many (but not
    all) cases the name and the label are the same.

    /Note 2: /The term label is not limited to the label element in HTML.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Error Suggestion*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.3

    *3.3.3
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-suggestions>
    Error Suggestion:* If an input error
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef> is
    automatically detected and suggestions for correction are known,
    then the suggestions are provided to the user, unless it would
    jeopardize the security or purpose of the content. (Level AA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that users receive
appropriate suggestions for correction of an input error if it is
possible. The WCAG 2.0 definition of "input error" says that it is
"information provided by the user that is not accepted" by the system.
Some examples of information that is not accepted include information
that is required but omitted by the user and information that is
provided by the user but that falls outside the required data format or
allowed values.

Success Criterion 3.3.1 provides for notification of errors. However,
persons with cognitive limitations may find it difficult to understand
how to correct the errors. People with visual disabilities may not be
able to figure out exactly how to correct the error. In the case of an
unsuccessful form submission, users may abandon the form because they
may be unsure of how to correct the error even though they are aware
that it has occurred.

The content author may provide the description of the error, or the user
agent may provide the description of the error based on
technology-specific, programmatically determined information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.3

  *

    Providing information about how to correct input errors allows users
    who have learning disabilities to fill in a form successfully. Users
    who are blind or have impaired vision understand more easily the
    nature of the input error and how to correct it. People with motion
    impairment can reduce the number of times they need to change an
    input value.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.3

  *

    *Additional Help for Correcting An Input Error*

    The result of a form that was not successfully submitted describes
    an input error in place in the page along with the correct input and
    offers additional help for the form field that caused the input error.

  *

    *Suggestions from a Limited Set of Values*

    An input field requires that a month name be entered. If the user
    enters "12," suggestions for correction may include

      o

        A list of the acceptable values, e.g., "Choose one of: January,
        February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September,
        October, November, December."

      o

        A description of the set of values, e.g., "Please provide the
        name of the month."

      o

        The conversion of the input data interpreted as a different
        month format, e.g., "Do you mean 'December'?"


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.3 - Error Suggestion

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.

/Note: / In some cases, more than one of these situations may apply. For
example, when a mandatory field also requires the data to be in a
specific format.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a mandatory field contains no information:

 1.

    G83: Providing text descriptions to identify required fields that
    were not completed
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G83>

 2.

    ARIA2: Identifying a required field with the aria-required property
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA2> (ARIA)

 3.

    PDF5: Indicating required form controls in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF5> (PDF)

 4.

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL35>
    (Silverlight)


          Situation B: If information for a field is required to be in a
          specific data format:

 1.

    ARIA18: Using aria-alertdialog to Identify Errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA18> (ARIA)

 2.

    G85: Providing a text description when user input falls outside the
    required format or values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G85>

 3.

    G177: Providing suggested correction text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G177>

 4.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    SCR32: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the DOM <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR32>
    (Scripting)

 6.

    FLASH12: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the accessible description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH12> (Flash)

 7.

    PDF22: Indicating when user input falls outside the required format
    or values in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF22> (PDF)


          Situation C: Information provided by the user is required to
          be one of a limited set of values:

 1.

    ARIA18: Using aria-alertdialog to Identify Errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA18> (ARIA)

 2.

    G84: Providing a text description when the user provides information
    that is not in the list of allowed values
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G84>

 3.

    G177: Providing suggested correction text
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G177>

 4.

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    SCR32: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the DOM <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR32>
    (Scripting)

 6.

    FLASH12: Providing client-side validation and adding error text via
    the accessible description
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH12> (Flash)

 7.

    PDF22: Indicating when user input falls outside the required format
    or values in PDF forms
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF22> (PDF)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.3

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    G139: Creating a mechanism that allows users to jump to errors
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G139>

  *

    Making error messages easy to understand and distinguishable from
    other text in the Web page (future link)

  *

    Validating form submissions on the server (future link)

  *

    When mandatory information has not been provided, including
    descriptions or examples of correct information in addition to
    identifying the field as mandatory (future link)

  *

    Repeating and emphasizing suggestions for correcting each input
    error in the context of its form field (future link)

  *

    Providing a way for the user to skip from each item in a list of
    suggestions to its corresponding form field (future link)

  *

    Providing additional contextual help for the form field requiring
    change (future link)

  *

    Accepting input data in a variety of formats (future link)

  *

    G199: Providing success feedback when data is submitted successfully
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G199>


          Techniques for providing suggestions to the user (Advisory)

  *

    Providing a text description that contains information about the
    number of input errors, suggestions for corrections to each item,
    and instructions on how to proceed (future link)

  *

    Providing a text description that contains suggestions for
    correction as the first item (or one of the first items) of content,
    or emphasizing this information in the content (future link)

  *

    Displaying errors and suggestions in the context of the original
    form (for example, re-displaying a form where input errors and
    suggestions for correction are highlighted and displayed in the
    context of the original form) (future link)


          HTML Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    Providing "correct examples" for data and data formats as initial
    text in mandatory form fields (future link)

  *

    Providing links to suggested correction text "close to" form fields,
    or providing the suggested correction text itself directly on the
    Web page "next to" form fields (future link)


          Client-Side Scripting Techniques (Advisory)

  *

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

  *

    Providing client-side validation and adding error text via the DOM
    (future link)

  *

    Calling a function from the submit action of a form to perform
    client side validation (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.3

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.3 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.4

    *3.3.4
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-reversible>
    Error Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data):* For Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    cause legal commitments
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#legalcommitmentsdef>
    or financial transactions for the user to occur, that modify or
    delete user-controllable
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-controllabledef> data
    in data storage systems, or that submit user test responses, at
    least one of the following is true: (Level AA)

     1.

        *Reversible: * Submissions are reversible.

     2.

        *Checked: * Data entered by the user is checked for input errors
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef>
        and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.

     3.

        *Confirmed: * A mechanism
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
        available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information
        before finalizing the submission.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users with disabilities
avoid serious consequences as the result of a mistake when performing an
action that cannot be reversed. For example, purchasing non-refundable
airline tickets or submitting an order to purchase stock in a brokerage
account are financial transactions with serious consequences. If a user
has made a mistake on the date of air travel, he or she could end up
with a ticket for the wrong day that cannot be exchanged. If the user
made a mistake on the number of stock shares to be purchased, he or she
could end up purchasing more stock than intended. Both of these types of
mistakes involve transactions that take place immediately and cannot be
altered afterwards, and can be very costly. Likewise, it may be an
unrecoverable error if users unintentionally modify or delete data
stored in a database that they later need to access, such as their
entire travel profile in a travel services web site. When referring to
modification or deletion of 'user controllable' data, the intent is to
prevent mass loss of data such as deleting a file or record. It is not
the intent to require a confirmation for each save command or the simple
creation or editing of documents, records or other data.

Users with disabilities may be more likely to make mistakes. People with
reading disabilities may transpose numbers and letters, and those with
motor disabilities may hit keys by mistake. Providing the ability to
reverse actions allows users to correct a mistake that could result in
serious consequences. Providing the ability to review and correct
information gives the user an opportunity to detect a mistake before
taking an action that has serious consequences.

User-controllable data is user-viewable data that the user can change
and/or delete through an intentional action. Examples of the user
controlling such data would be updating the phone number and address for
the user's account, or deleting a record of past invoices from a
website. It does not refer such things as internet logs and search
engine monitoring data that the user can't view or interact with directly.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.4

  *

    Providing safeguards to avoid serious consequences resulting from
    mistakes helps users with all disabilities who may be more likely to
    make mistakes.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.4

  *

    /Order confirmation./

    A Web retailer offers on-line shopping for customers. When an order
    is submitted, the order information—including items ordered,
    quantity of each ordered item, shipping address, and payment
    method—are displayed so that the user can inspect the order for
    correctness. The user can either confirm the order or make changes.

  *

    /Stock sale:/

    A financial services Web site lets users buy and sell stock online.
    When a user submits an order to buy or sell stock, the system checks
    to see whether or not the market is open. If it is after hours, the
    user is alerted that the transaction will be an after-hours
    transaction, is told about the risks of trading outside of regular
    market hours, and given the opportunity to cancel or confirm the order.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.4 - Error
      Prevention (Legal, Financial, Data)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If an application causes a legal transaction to
          occur, such as making a purchase or submitting an income tax
          return:

 1.

    G164: Providing a stated time within which an online request (or
    transaction) may be amended or canceled by the user after making the
    request <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G164>

 2.

    G98: Providing the ability for the user to review and correct
    answers before submitting
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G98>

 3.

    G155: Providing a checkbox in addition to a submit button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G155>


          Situation B: If an action causes information to be deleted:

 1.

    G99: Providing the ability to recover deleted information
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G99>

 2.

    G168: Requesting confirmation to continue with selected action
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G168>

 3.

    G155: Providing a checkbox in addition to a submit button
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G155>


          Situation C: If the Web page includes a testing application:

 1.

    G98: Providing the ability for the user to review and correct
    answers before submitting
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G98>

 2.

    G168: Requesting confirmation to continue with selected action
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G168>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.4

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Informing the user what irreversible action is about to happen
    (future link)

  *

    SCR18: Providing client-side validation and alert
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR18>
    (Scripting)

  *

    SL35: Using the Validation and ValidationSummary APIs to Implement
    Client Side Forms Validation in Silverlight
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL35>
    (Silverlight)

  *

    Placing focus in the field containing the error (future link)

  *

    Avoiding use of the same words or letter combinations to begin each
    item of a drop-down list (future link)

  *

    G199: Providing success feedback when data is submitted successfully
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G199>


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.4

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.4 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

legal commitments

    transactions where the person incurs a legally binding obligation or
    benefit

    /Example: /A marriage license, a stock trade (financial and legal),
    a will, a loan, adoption, signing up for the army, a contract of any
    type, etc.

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

user-controllable

    data that is intended to be accessed by users

    /Note: /This does not refer to such things as Internet logs and
    search engine monitoring data.

    /Example: / Name and address fields for a user's account.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Help*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.5

    *3.3.5
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-context-help>
    Help:* Context-sensitive help
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#context-sensitivehelpdef>
    is available. (Level AAA)


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users avoid making
mistakes. Some users with disabilities may be more likely to make
mistakes than users without disabilities. Using context-sensitive help,
users find out how to perform an operation without losing track of what
they are doing.

Context-sensitive help only needs to be provided when the label is not
sufficient to describe all functionality. The existence of
context-sensitive help should be obvious to the user and they should be
able to obtain it whenever they require it.

The content author may provide the help text, or the user agent may
provide the help text based on technology-specific, programmatically
determined information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.5

  *

    Assistance for text input helps individuals with writing
    disabilities and people with reading and intellectual disabilities
    who often have difficulty writing text in forms or other places that
    need text input.

  *

    Additionally, these kinds of assistance help people who are aging
    and have the same difficulty in text input and/or mouse operation.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.5

  *

    *on-line job application*

    Some of the questions may be hard for new job seekers to understand.
    A help link next to each question provides instructions and
    explanations for each question.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.5 - Help

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If a form requires text input:

 1.

    G71: Providing a help link on every Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G71>

 2.

    G193: Providing help by an assistant in the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G193>

 3.

    G194: Providing spell checking and suggestions for text input
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G194>

 4.

    G184: Providing text instructions at the beginning of a form or set
    of fields that describes the necessary input
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G184>


          Situation B: If a form requires text input in an expected data
          format:

 1.

    G89: Providing expected data format and example
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G89>

 2.

    G184: Providing text instructions at the beginning of a form or set
    of fields that describes the necessary input
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G184>


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 3.3.5

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    H89: Using the title attribute to provide context-sensitive help
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H89> (HTML)

  *

    Checking byte of character and auto-converting to expected byte for
    text input if applicable (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 3.3.5

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 3.3.5 by the WCAG Working Group.

(No failures currently documented)


      Key Terms

context-sensitive help

    help text that provides information related to the function
    currently being performed

    /Note: /Clear labels can act as context-sensitive help.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Error Prevention (All)*:
    Understanding SC 3.3.6

    *3.3.6
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-reversible-all>
    Error Prevention (All):* For Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> that
    require the user to submit information, at least one of the
    following is true: (Level AAA)

     1.

        *Reversible: * Submissions are reversible.

     2.

        *Checked: * Data entered by the user is checked for input errors
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#input-errordef>
        and the user is provided an opportunity to correct them.

     3.

        *Confirmed: * A mechanism
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef> is
        available for reviewing, confirming, and correcting information
        before finalizing the submission.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to help users with disabilities
avoid consequences that may result from making a mistake when submitting
form data. This criterion builds on Success Criterion 3.3.4
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#minimize-error-reversible>
in that it applies to all forms that require users to submit information.

Users with disabilities may be more likely to make mistakes and may have
more difficulty detecting or recovering from mistakes. People with
reading disabilities may transpose numbers and letters, and those with
motor disabilities may hit keys by mistake. Providing the ability to
reverse actions allows users to correct a mistake. Providing the ability
to review and correct information gives the user an opportunity to
detect a mistake before taking an action.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 3.3.6

  *

    Providing safeguards to avoid consequences resulting from mistakes
    helps users with all disabilities who may be more likely to make
    mistakes.


      Examples of Success Criterion 3.3.6

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 3.3.6 - Error
      Prevention (All)

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    Following the sufficient techniques for Success Criterion 3.3.4
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/minimize-error-reversible.html#minimize-error-reversible-techniques-head>
    for all forms that require the user to submit information.


      Key Terms

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

input error

    information provided by the user that is not accepted

    /Note: / This includes:

     1.

        Information that is required by the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> but
        omitted by the user

     2.

        Information that is provided by the user but that falls outside
        the required data format or values

mechanism

    process <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef>
    or technique for achieving a result

    /Note 1: /The mechanism may be explicitly provided in the content,
    or may be relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to be
    provided by either the platform or by user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>.

    /Note 2: /The mechanism needs to meet all success criteria for the
    conformance level claimed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Compatible*:
    Understanding Guideline 4.1

    *Guideline 4.1: *Maximize compatibility with current and future user
    agents, including assistive technologies.


      Intent of Guideline 4.1

The purpose of this guideline is to support compatibility with current
and future user agents, /especially/ assistive technologies (AT). This
is done both by 1) ensuring that authors do not do things that would
break AT (e.g., poorly formed markup) or circumvent AT (e.g., by using
unconventional markup or code) and 2) exposing information in the
content in standard ways that assistive technologies can recognize and
interact with. Since technologies change quickly, and AT developers have
much trouble keeping up with rapidly changing technologies, it is
important that content follow conventions and be compatible with APIs so
that AT can more easily work with new technologies as they evolve.


      Advisory Techniques for Guideline 4.1 (not success criteria specific)

Specific techniques for meeting each Success Criterion for this
guideline are listed in the understanding sections for each Success
Criterion (listed below). If there are techniques, however, for
addressing this guideline that do not fall under any of the success
criteria, they are listed here. These techniques are not required or
sufficient for meeting any success criteria, but can make certain types
of Web content more accessible to more people.

  *

    Avoiding deprecated features of W3C technologies (future link)

  *

    Not displaying content that relies on technologies that are not
    accessibility-supported when the technology is turned off or not
    supported.


    *Parsing*:
    Understanding SC 4.1.1

    *4.1.1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ensure-compat-parses> Parsing:*
    In content implemented using markup languages, elements have
    complete start and end tags, elements are nested according to their
    specifications, elements do not contain duplicate attributes, and
    any IDs are unique, except where the specifications allow these
    features. (Level A)

    /Note: /Start and end tags that are missing a critical character in
    their formation, such as a closing angle bracket or a mismatched
    attribute value quotation mark are not complete.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that user agents,
including assistive technologies, can accurately interpret and parse
content. If the content cannot be parsed into a data structure, then
different user agents may present it differently or be completely unable
to parse it. Some user agents use "repair techniques" to render poorly
coded content.

Since repair techniques vary among user agents, authors cannot assume
that content will be accurately parsed into a data structure or that it
will be rendered correctly by specialized user agents, including
assistive technologies, unless the content is created according to the
rules defined in the formal grammar for that technology. In markup
languages, errors in element and attribute syntax and failure to provide
properly nested start/end tags lead to errors that prevent user agents
from parsing the content reliably. Therefore, the Success Criterion
requires that the content can be parsed using only the rules of the
formal grammar.

/Note 1: /The concept of "well formed" is close to what is required
here. However, exact parsing requirements vary amongst markup languages,
and most non XML-based languages do not explicitly define requirements
for well formedness. Therefore, it was necessary to be more explicit in
the success criterion in order to be generally applicable to markup
languages. Because the term "well formed" is only defined in XML, and
(because end tags are sometimes optional) valid HTML does not require
well formed code, the term is not used in this success criterion.

/Note 2: /With the exception of one success criterion (/Understanding
Success Criterion 1.4.4 Resize text <#visual-audio-contrast-scale>/,
which specifically mentions that the effect specified by the success
criterion must be achieved without relying on an assistive technology)
authors can meet the success criteria with content that assumes use of
an assistive technology (or access features in use agents) by the user,
where such assistive technologies (or access features in user agents)
exist and are available to the user.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 4.1.1

  *

    Ensuring that Web pages have complete start and end tags and are
    nested according to specification helps ensure that assistive
    technologies can parse the content accurately and without crashing.


      Examples of Success Criterion 4.1.1

(none currently documented)


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

(none currently documented)


      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 4.1.1 - Parsing

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

 1.

    G134: Validating Web pages
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G134>

 2.

    G192: Fully conforming to specifications
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G192>

 3.

    H88: Using HTML according to spec
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H88> (HTML)

 4.

    Ensuring that Web pages can be parsed by using one of the following
    techniques:

      *

        H74: Ensuring that opening and closing tags are used according
        to specification
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H74>
        (HTML) *AND* H93: Ensuring that id attributes are unique on a
        Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H93>
        (HTML) *AND* H94: Ensuring that elements do not contain
        duplicate attributes
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H94> (HTML)

      *

        H75: Ensuring that Web pages are well-formed
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H75> (HTML)

 5.

    SL33: Using Well-Formed XAML to Define a Silverlight User Interface
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL33>
    (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 4.1.1

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

(none currently documented)


        Common Failures for SC 4.1.1

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 4.1.1 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F70: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.1 due to incorrect use of
    start and end tags or attribute markup
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F70>

  *

    F77: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.1 due to duplicate values of
    type ID <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F77>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    *Name, Role, Value*:
    Understanding SC 4.1.2

    *4.1.2
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#ensure-compat-rsv>
    Name, Role, Value:* For all user interface components
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#user-interface-componentdef>
    (including but not limited to: form elements, links and components
    generated by scripts), the name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#namedef> and role
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#roledef> can be
    programmatically determined
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallydetermineddef>;
    states, properties, and values that can be set by the user can be
    programmatically set
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#programmaticallysetdef>;
    and notification of changes to these items is available to user
    agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>. (Level A)

    /Note: /This success criterion is primarily for Web authors who
    develop or script their own user interface components. For example,
    standard HTML controls already meet this success criterion when used
    according to specification.


      Intent of this Success Criterion

The intent of this Success Criterion is to ensure that Assistive
Technologies (AT) can gather information about, activate(or set) and
keep up to date on the status of user interface controls in the content.

When standard controls from accessible technologies are used, this
process is straightforward. If the user interface elements are used
according to specification the conditions of this provision will be met.
(See examples of Success Criterion 4.1.2 below)

If custom controls are created, however, or interface elements are
programmed (in code or script) to have a different role and/or function
than usual, then additional measures need to be taken to ensure that the
controls provide important information to assistive technologies and
allow themselves to be controlled by assistive technologies.

A particularly important state of a user interface control is whether or
not it has focus. The focus state of a control can be programmatically
determined, and notifications about change of focus are sent to user
agents and assistive technology. Other examples of user interface
control state are whether or not a checkbox or radio button has been
selected, or whether or not a collapsible tree or list node is expanded
or collapsed.

/Note: /Success Criterion 4.1.2 requires a programmatically determinable
name for all user interface components. Names may be visible or
invisible. Occasionally, the name must be visible, in which case it is
identified as a label. Refer to the definition of name and label in the
glossary for more information.


        Specific Benefits of Success Criterion 4.1.2

  *

    Providing role, state, and value information on all user interface
    components enables compatibility with assistive technology, such as
    screen readers, screen magnifiers, and speech recognition software,
    used by people with disabilities.


      Examples of Success Criterion 4.1.2

  *

    *Accessible APIs *

    A Java applet uses the accessibility API defined by the language.


      Related Resources

Resources are for information purposes only, no endorsement implied.

  *

    Dynamic Accessible Web Content Roadmap
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/roadmap/>

  *

    Role Taxonomy for Accessible Adaptable Applications
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/GUI/>

  *

    States and Adaptable Properties Module
    <http://www.w3.org/WAI/PF/adaptable/>

  *

    Microsoft Active Accessibility, Version 2.0
    <https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/ms697707.aspx>

  *

    Adobe Flash accessibility design guidelines
    <http://www.adobe.com/accessibility.htmlproducts/flash/best-practices.html>



      Techniques and Failures for Success Criterion 4.1.2 - Name, Role,
      Value

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20-20160317/understanding-techniques.html>,
particularly the "Other Techniques" section.


        Sufficient Techniques

*Instructions:* Select the situation below that matches your content.
Each situation includes numbered techniques (or combinations of
techniques) that the Working Group deems to be sufficient for that
situation.


          Situation A: If using a standard user interface component in a
          markup language (e.g., HTML):

 1.

    ARIA14: Using aria-label to provide an invisible label where a
    visible label cannot be used
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA14> (ARIA)

 2.

    ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user interface
    controls
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA16> (ARIA)

 3.

    G108: Using markup features to expose the name and role, allow
    user-settable properties to be directly set, and provide
    notification of changes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G108> using
    technology-specific techniques below:

      *

        H91: Using HTML form controls and links
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H91> (HTML)

      *

        H44: Using label elements to associate text labels with form
        controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H44> (HTML)

      *

        H64: Using the title attribute of the frame and iframe elements
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H64> (HTML)

      *

        H65: Using the title attribute to identify form controls when
        the label element cannot be used
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H65> (HTML)

      *

        H88: Using HTML according to spec
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/H88> (HTML)


          Situation B: If using script or code to re-purpose a standard
          user interface component in a markup language:

 1.

    Exposing the names and roles, allowing user-settable properties to
    be directly set, and providing notification of changes using one of
    the following techniques:

      *

        ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user
        interface controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA16>
        (ARIA)


          Situation C: If using a standard user interface component in a
          programming technology:

 1.

    G135: Using the accessibility API features of a technology to expose
    names and roles, to allow user-settable properties to be directly
    set, and to provide notification of changes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G135> using
    technology-specific techniques below:

      *

        FLASH32: Using auto labeling to associate text labels with form
        controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH32>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH29: Setting the label property for form components
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH29>
        (Flash)

      *

        FLASH30: Specifying accessible names for image buttons
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/FLASH30>
        (Flash)

      *

        PDF10: Providing labels for interactive form controls in PDF
        documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF10> (PDF)

      *

        PDF12: Providing name, role, value information for form fields
        in PDF documents
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/PDF12> (PDF)

      *

        SL26: Using LabeledBy to Associate Labels and Targets in
        Silverlight
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL26>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL32: Using Silverlight Text Elements for Appropriate
        Accessibility Role
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL32>
        (Silverlight)


          Situation D: If creating your own user interface component in
          a programming language:

 1.

    G10: Creating components using a technology that supports the
    accessibility API features of the platforms on which the user agents
    will be run to expose the names and roles, allow user-settable
    properties to be directly set, and provide notification of changes
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G10> using
    technology-specific techniques below:

      *

        ARIA4: Using a WAI-ARIA role to expose the role of a user
        interface component
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA4> (ARIA)

      *

        ARIA5: Using WAI-ARIA state and property attributes to expose
        the state of a user interface component
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA5> (ARIA)

      *

        ARIA16: Using aria-labelledby to provide a name for user
        interface controls
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/ARIA16>
        (ARIA)

      *

        SL6: Defining a UI Automation Peer for a Custom Silverlight
        Control
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL6>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL18: Providing Text Equivalent for Nontext Silverlight Controls
        With AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL18>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL20: Relying on Silverlight AutomationPeer Behavior to Set
        AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL20>
        (Silverlight)

      *

        SL30: Using Silverlight Control Compositing and
        AutomationProperties.Name
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SL30>
        (Silverlight)


        Additional Techniques (Advisory) for 4.1.2

Although not required for conformance, the following additional
techniques should be considered in order to make content more
accessible. Not all techniques can be used or would be effective in all
situations.

  *

    Providing labels for all form controls that do not have implicit
    labels (future link)


        Common Failures for SC 4.1.2

The following are common mistakes that are considered failures of
Success Criterion 4.1.2 by the WCAG Working Group.

  *

    F59: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to using script to make
    div or span a user interface control in HTML without providing a
    role for the control
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F59>

    /Note: /This failure may be solved in the future using DHTML roadmap
    techniques.

  *

    F15: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to implementing custom
    controls that do not use an accessibility API for the technology, or
    do so incompletely
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F15>

  *

    F20: Failure of Success Criterion 1.1.1 and 4.1.2 due to not
    updating text alternatives when changes to non-text content occur
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F20>

  *

    F68: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to a user interface
    control not having a programmatically determined name
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F68>

  *

    F79: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to the focus state of a
    user interface component not being programmatically determinable or
    no notification of change of focus state available
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F79>

  *

    F86: Failure of Success Criterion 4.1.2 due to not providing names
    for each part of a multi-part form field, such as a US telephone
    number <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F86>

  *

    F89: Failure of Success Criteria 2.4.4, 2.4.9 and 4.1.2 due to not
    providing an accessible name for an image which is the only content
    in a link <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F89>


      Key Terms

assistive technology (as used in this document)

    hardware and/or software that acts as a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>, or
    along with a mainstream user agent, to provide functionality to meet
    the requirements of users with disabilities that go beyond those
    offered by mainstream user agents

    /Note 1: / functionality provided by assistive technology includes
    alternative presentations (e.g., as synthesized speech or magnified
    content), alternative input methods (e.g., voice), additional
    navigation or orientation mechanisms, and content transformations
    (e.g., to make tables more accessible).

    /Note 2: /Assistive technologies often communicate data and messages
    with mainstream user agents by using and monitoring APIs.

    /Note 3: /The distinction between mainstream user agents and
    assistive technologies is not absolute. Many mainstream user agents
    provide some features to assist individuals with disabilities. The
    basic difference is that mainstream user agents target broad and
    diverse audiences that usually include people with and without
    disabilities. Assistive technologies target narrowly defined
    populations of users with specific disabilities. The assistance
    provided by an assistive technology is more specific and appropriate
    to the needs of its target users. The mainstream user agent may
    provide important functionality to assistive technologies like
    retrieving Web content from program objects or parsing markup into
    identifiable bundles.

    /Example: /Assistive technologies that are important in the context
    of this document include the following:

      *

        screen magnifiers, and other visual reading assistants, which
        are used by people with visual, perceptual and physical print
        disabilities to change text font, size, spacing, color,
        synchronization with speech, etc. in order to improve the visual
        readability of rendered text and images;

      *

        screen readers, which are used by people who are blind to read
        textual information through synthesized speech or braille;

      *

        text-to-speech software, which is used by some people with
        cognitive, language, and learning disabilities to convert text
        into synthetic speech;

      *

        speech recognition software, which may be used by people who
        have some physical disabilities;

      *

        alternative keyboards, which are used by people with certain
        physical disabilities to simulate the keyboard (including
        alternate keyboards that use head pointers, single switches,
        sip/puff and other special input devices.);

      *

        alternative pointing devices, which are used by people with
        certain physical disabilities to simulate mouse pointing and
        button activations.

name

    text by which software can identify a component within Web content
    to the user

    /Note 1: /The name may be hidden and only exposed by assistive
    technology, whereas a label
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#labeldef> is
    presented to all users. In many (but not all) cases, the label and
    the name are the same.

    /Note 2: /This is unrelated to the name attribute in HTML.

programmatically determined (programmatically determinable)

    determined by software from author-supplied data provided in a way
    that different user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>,
    including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef>, can extract
    and present this information to users in different modalities

    /Example 1: /Determined in a markup language from elements and
    attributes that are accessed directly by commonly available
    assistive technology.

    /Example 2: /Determined from technology-specific data structures in
    a non-markup language and exposed to assistive technology via an
    accessibility API that is supported by commonly available assistive
    technology.

programmatically set

    set by software using methods that are supported by user agents,
    including assistive technologies

role

    text or number by which software can identify the function of a
    component within Web content

    /Example: /A number that indicates whether an image functions as a
    hyperlink, command button, or check box.

user agent

    any software that retrieves and presents Web content for users

    /Example: /Web browsers, media players, plug-ins, and other programs
    — including assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef> — that help
    in retrieving, rendering, and interacting with Web content.

user interface component

    a part of the content that is perceived by users as a single control
    for a distinct function

    /Note 1: /Multiple user interface components may be implemented as a
    single programmatic element. Components here is not tied to
    programming techniques, but rather to what the user perceives as
    separate controls.

    /Note 2: /User interface components include form elements and links
    as well as components generated by scripts.

    /Example: /An applet has a "control" that can be used to move
    through content by line or page or random access. Since each of
    these would need to have a name and be settable independently, they
    would each be a "user interface component."

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Understanding Conformance

All WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria are written as testable criteria for
objectively determining if content satisfies them. Testing the Success
Criteria would involve a combination of automated testing and human
evaluation. The content should be tested by those who understand how
people with different types of disabilities use the Web.

Testing and testable in the context refer to functional testing, that is
verifying that the content functions as expected, or in this case, that
it satisfies the Success Criteria. Although content may satisfy all
Success Criteria, the content may not always be usable by people with a
wide variety of disabilities. Therefore, usability testing is
recommended, in addition to the required functional testing. Usability
testing aims to determine how well people can use the content for its
intended purpose. It is recommended that users with disabilities be
included in test groups when performing usability testing.


      What does conformance mean?

Conformance to a standard means that you meet or satisfy the
'requirements' of the standard. In WCAG 2.0 the 'requirements' are the
Success Criteria. To conform to WCAG 2.0, you need to satisfy the
Success Criteria, that is, there is no content which violates the
Success Criteria.

/Note: /This means that if there is no content to which a success
criterion applies, the success criterion is satisfied.

Most standards only have one level of conformance. In order to
accommodate different situations that may require or allow greater
levels of accessibility than others, WCAG 2.0 has three levels of
conformance, and therefore, three levels of Success Criteria.


      Understanding Conformance Requirements

There are five requirements that must be met in order for content to be
classified as 'conforming' to WCAG 2.0. This section provides brief
notes on those requirements. This section will be expanded over time to
address questions that may arise or to provide new examples of ways to
meet the different conformance requirements.


        Understanding Requirement 1

    *1. Conformance Level:* One of the following levels of conformance
    is met in full.

      *

        *Level A: *For Level A conformance (the minimum level of
        conformance), the Web page
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef>
        satisfies
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#satisfiesdef>
        all the Level A Success Criteria, or a conforming alternate
        version
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conforming-alternate-versiondef>
        is provided.

      *

        *Level AA: *For Level AA conformance, the Web page satisfies all
        the Level A and Level AA Success Criteria, or a Level AA
        conforming alternate version is provided.

      *

        *Level AAA: *For Level AAA conformance, the Web page satisfies
        all the Level A, Level AA and Level AAA Success Criteria, or a
        Level AAA conforming alternate version is provided.

    /Note 1: /Although conformance can only be achieved at the stated
    levels, authors are encouraged to report (in their claim) any
    progress toward meeting success criteria from all levels beyond the
    achieved level of conformance.

    /Note 2: /It is not recommended that Level AAA conformance be
    required as a general policy for entire sites because it is not
    possible to satisfy all Level AAA Success Criteria for some content.

The first requirement deals with the levels of conformance. It basically
says that all information on a page conforms or has a conforming
alternate version
<http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conforming-alternate-versiondef>
that is available from the page. The requirement also explains that no
conformance is possible without at least satisfying all of the Level A
Success Criteria.

The note points out that authors are encouraged to go beyond conformance
to a particular level and to complete, and report if they desire, any
progress toward higher levels of conformance.

See also Understanding Conforming Alternate Versions
<#uc-conforming-alt-versions-head> which includes techniques for
providing Conforming Alternate Versions.


        Understanding Requirement 2

    *2. Full pages:* Conformance
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformancedef> (and
    conformance level) is for full Web page(s)
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> only,
    and cannot be achieved if part of a Web page is excluded.

    /Note 1: /For the purpose of determining conformance, alternatives
    to part of a page's content are considered part of the page when the
    alternatives can be obtained directly from the page, e.g., a long
    description or an alternative presentation of a video.

    /Note 2: /Authors of Web pages that cannot conform due to content
    outside of the author's control may consider a Statement of Partial
    Conformance
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#conformance-partial>.

This provision simply requires that the whole page conform. Statements
about "part of a page conforming" cannot be made.

Sometimes, supplemental information may be available from another page
for information on a page. The |longdesc| attribute in HTML is an
example. With |longdesc|, a long description of a graphic might be on a
separate page that the user can jump to from the page with the graphic.
This makes it clear that such content is considered part of the Web
page, so that requirement #2 is satisfied for the combined set of Web
pages considered as a single Web page. Alternatives can also be provided
on the same page. For example creating an equivalent to a user interface
control.

/Note 1: /Because of conformance requirement 5, a whole page may conform
even if parts of the page use non accessibility-supported content
technologies as long as they do not interfere with the rest of the page
and all information and function is available elsewhere on or from the page.

/Note 2: /It is possible to include non-conforming content. See
Understanding Conformance Requirement 5
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-conf-req5-head>.


        Understanding Requirement 3

    *3. Complete processes:* When a Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> is one
    of a series of Web pages presenting a process
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#processdef> (i.e., a
    sequence of steps that need to be completed in order to accomplish
    an activity), all Web pages in the process conform at the specified
    level or better. (Conformance is not possible at a particular level
    if any page in the process does not conform at that level or better.)

    /Example: /An online store has a series of pages that are used to
    select and purchase products. All pages in the series from start to
    finish (checkout) conform in order for any page that is part of the
    process to conform.

This provision prevents a Web page that is part of a larger process from
being considered conforming if the process overall is not. This would
prevent a shopping site from being classified as conforming if the
checkout or other features of the site that are part of the shopping and
buying process do not conform.


        Understanding Requirement 4

    *4. Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of Using Technologies:* Only
    accessibility-supported
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#accessibility-supporteddef>
    ways of using technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#technologydef> are
    relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> to
    satisfy the success criteria. Any information or functionality that
    is provided in a way that is not accessibility supported is also
    available in a way that is accessibility supported. (See
    Understanding accessibility support
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>.)


This conformance requirement is explained below under Understanding
Accessibility Support
<https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-accessibility-support-head>.


        Understanding Requirement 5

    *5. Non-Interference:* If technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#technologydef> are
    used in a way that is not accessibility supported
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#accessibility-supporteddef>,
    or if they are used in a non-conforming way, then they do not block
    the ability of users to access the rest of the page. In addition,
    the Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#webpagedef> as a
    whole continues to meet the conformance requirements under each of
    the following conditions:

     1.

        when any technology that is not relied upon
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef>
        is turned on in a user agent,

     2.

        when any technology that is not relied upon is turned off in a
        user agent, and

     3.

        when any technology that is not relied upon is not supported by
        a user agent

    In addition, the following success criteria apply to all content on
    the page, including content that is not otherwise relied upon to
    meet conformance, because failure to meet them could interfere with
    any use of the page:

      *

        *1.4.2 - Audio Control*,

      *

        *2.1.2 - No Keyboard Trap*,

      *

        *2.3.1 - Three Flashes or Below Threshold*, and

      *

        *2.2.2 - Pause, Stop, Hide*.

This basically says that technologies that are *not accessibility
supported* can be used, as long as all the information is also available
using technologies that *are accessibility supported* and as long as the
*non-accessibility-supported* material does not interfere.

Technologies that are not accessibility supported can be used, or
technologies that are accessibility supported can be used in a non
conforming manner, as long as all the information is also available
using technologies that are accessibility supported, in a manner that
does conform, and as long as the non-accessibility-supported material
does not interfere.

There are four provisions that particularly deal with issues of
interference with use of the page. These four are included in a note
here. A note on each of the provisions indicates that these Success
Criteria need to be met for all content including content created using
technologies that are not accessibility supported.

/Example: /A Web page incorporates a new interactive graphic technology
called "ZAP". Although ZAP is accessibility-supported, the information
that is presented in ZAP is also presented on the page in HTML, so ZAP
is not relied upon. So, this page would pass conformance requirement #1.
However, if the user tries to tab through the ZAP content, the focus
drops into the ZAP object and gets stuck there. Once inside, there is
nothing the user can do to get the focus back out. So keyboard users
cannot use the bottom half of the page. The ZAP content also is
continually flashing brightly at different rates and doesn't stop. So,
people with attention deficit are distracted and those with
photosensitive seizure disorders may have seizures. Conformance
requirement #5 prevents situations like these from being possible on a
conforming page.


      Understanding Conformance Claims

It is not required to make any conformance claim in order to conform. If
one does make a claim, however, the rules must be followed.

Sometimes, one may want to make a claim for just the content that was
added after a certain date. Or, one may want to claim WCAG 1.0
conformance for content up to a date and WCAG 2.0 for content that was
created or modified after that date. There are no prohibitions in WCAG
2.0 to any of these practices as long as it is clear which pages are
claiming conformance to which version of WCAG.

/Note 1: /When talking about technologies that are "relied upon," we're
talking about Web content technologies (HTML, CSS, JavaScript, etc.),
not user agents (browsers, assistive technologies, etc.).

/Note 2: /Conformance claims are not usually located on each Web page
within the scope of conformance.


        Partial conformance claims due to third party content

When an author makes a decision to use a third party implementation,
they should choose products that meet WCAG requirements. If all content
on a page, including third party content, meets all WCAG success
criteria then the page conforms to WCAG. However, if the page does not
conform to WCAG only for reasons that are legitimately outside the
author's control then the author can make a claim of partial
conformance. It is important to recognize that this is a statement of
non-conformance and there are users who may not be able to access some
of the content this page.

One reason that content may be outside the author's control is because
it is being provided by a third party (blogs, portals, news sites). Web
pages may also include content via third party libraries, plugins, or
widgets.

Be sure to monitor any content that can change without approval from the
web page author, as a page which once conformed may suddenly fail to
conform. If it is not possible to monitor and repair the third party
content, it is necessary to identify the non-conforming parts of the
page for users. If the rest of the web page conforms to WCAG, such a
page qualifies for a statement of partial conformance, third party content.


        Information about any additional steps taken that go beyond the
        Success Criteria

One of the optional components of a conformance claim is "Information
about any additional steps taken that go beyond the Success Criteria to
enhance accessibility." This can include additional Success Criteria
that have been met, advisory techniques that were implemented,
information about any additional protocols used to aid access for people
with particular disabilities or needs, etc. Any information that would
be useful to people in understanding the accessibility of the pages may
be included.


        Use of metadata to report conformance claims

The most useful way of attaching conformance claims to content would be
to do so in standard machine readable form. When this practice is
widespread, search tools or special user agents will be able to make use
of this information to find and provide content that is more accessible
or so the user agents can adjust to the content. There are a number of
metadata based options under development for making claims, and authors
and tool developers are encouraged to support them.

In addition, metadata can be used to report conformance to individual
Success Criteria once Level A conformance has been achieved.

There are also programmatic reporting formats such as Evaluation and
Report Language (EARL) <http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/earl.php> that are
being developed that could provide machine readable formats for detailed
conformance information. As the reporting formats are formalized and
support for them develops, they will be documented here.


        Examples of Conformance Claims


          Examples of Required Components of Conformance Claims

/Example 1: /On 20 September 2009, all Web pages at
http://www.example.com conform to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines
2.0 at http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/. Level A conformance.

  *

    The documented set of accessibility-supported content technologies
    *relied upon* for this claim is a subset of ISA- AsCTset#1-2008 at
    http://ISA.example.gov/AsCTsets/AS2-2008.

/Example 2: /(using a regular expression) On 12 August 2009, pages
matching the pattern http://www.example.com/(marketing|sales|contact)/.*
conform to Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 at
http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/. Level AA conformance.

  *

    The technologies that this content "*relies upon*" is: XHTML 1.0
    Transitional, CSS 2.0 and JavaScript 1.2.

/Example 3: /(using boolean logic) On 6 January 2009,
http://example.com/ AND NOT (http://example.com/archive/ OR
http://example.com/publications/archive/) conforms to Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 at
http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/. Level AA conformance.

  *

    The documented set of accessibility-supported content technologies
    *relied upon* for this claim includes XHTML 1.0 and SMIL from ISA-
    AsCTset#1-2008 at http://ISA.example.gov/AsCTsets/AS2-2008.


          Examples of Conformance Claims including optional components

/Example 1: /On 5 May 2009, the page "G7: An Introduction"
http://telcor.example.com/nav/G7/intro.html conforms to Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 at
http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/. Level AA conformance.

  *

    The following additional Success Criteria have also been met: 1.1.2,
    1.2.5, and 1.4.3.

  *

    The documented set of accessibility-supported content technologies
    used for this claim is AsCTset#1-2006 at
    http://UDLabs.org/AsCTset#1-2006.html.

  *

    The technologies that this content "*relies upon*" is: XHTML 1.0
    (Strict), and Real Video.

  *

    The technologies that this content "*uses but does not rely upon*"
    are: JavaScript 1.2, CSS2.

/Example 2: /On 21 June 2009, all content beginning with the URI
http://example.com/nav and http://example.com/docs conform to Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0 at
http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/. Level AAA conformance.

  *

    The documented set of accessibility-supported content technologies
    used for this claim is SMITH- AsCTset#2-2008 at
    http://smithreports.example.com/AsCTsets/AS2-2008.

  *

    The technologies that this content "*relies upon*" are: XHTML 1.0
    (Strict), CSS2, JavaScript 1.2, JPEG, PNG.

  *

    The user agents, including assistive technologies, that this content
    has been tested with can be found at
    http://example.com/docs/WCAG20/test/technologies.html.

/Example 3: /On 23 March 2009, all content available on the server at
http://www.wondercall.example.com conforms to Web Content Accessibility
Guidelines 2.0 at http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/.
Single-A conformance.

  *

    The technology that this content "*relies upon*" is: HTML 4.01.

  *

    The technologies that this content "*uses but does not rely upon*"
    are: CSS2, and gif.

  *

    This content was tested using the following user agents and
    assistive technologies: Firefox 1.5 on Windows Vista with
    Screenreader X 4.0, Firefox 1.5 on Windows XP SP 2 with Screenreader
    X 3.5, IE 6.0 on Windows 2000 SP4 with Screenreader Y 5.0, IE 6.0 on
    Windows 2000 SP4 with Screenreader Z 2.0, and Firefox 1.5 on Windows
    XP SP2 with Screenreader X 4.0, Safari 2.0 with OS X 10.4.


        Techniques for Conformance Claims


          Advisory Techniques

  *

    Expressing a conformance claim to WCAG 2.0 in Dublin Core elements
    (future link)


      Understanding Levels of Conformance

First, there are a number of conditions that must be met for a Success
Criterion to be included at all. These include:

 1.

    All Success Criteria must be *important access issues for people
    with disabilities* that address problems beyond the usability
    problems that might be faced by all users. In other words, the
    access issue must cause a proportionately greater problem for people
    with disabilities than it causes people without disabilities in
    order to be considered an accessibility issue (and covered under
    these accessibility guidelines).

 2.

    All Success Criteria must also be testable. This is important since
    otherwise it would not be possible to determine whether a page met
    or failed to meet the Success Criteria. The Success Criteria can be
    tested by a combination of machine and human evaluation as long as
    it is possible to determine whether a Success Criterion has been
    satisfied with a high level of confidence.

The Success Criteria were assigned to one of the three levels of
conformance by the working group after taking into consideration a wide
range of interacting issues. Some of the common factors evaluated when
setting the level included:

  *

    whether the Success Criterion is *essential* (in other words, if the
    Success Criterion isn't met, then even assistive technology can't
    make content accessible)

  *

    whether it is possible to satisfy the Success Criterion for *all Web
    sites and types of content* that the Success Criteria would apply to
    (e.g., different topics, types of content, types of Web technology)

  *

    whether the Success Criterion requires skills that could *reasonably
    be achieved by the content creators* (that is, the knowledge and
    skill to meet the Success Criteria could be acquired in a week's
    training or less)

  *

    whether the Success Criterion would impose limits on the "look &
    feel" and/or function of the Web page. (limits on function,
    presentation, freedom of expression, design or aesthetic that the
    Success Criteria might place on authors)

  *

    whether there are no workarounds if the Success Criterion is not met


      Understanding Accessibility Support

Many of the Success Criteria deal with providing accessibility through
assistive technologies or special accessibility features in mainstream
user agents (for example, a 'show captions' option in a media player).
That is, the Success Criteria require that something be done in the Web
content that would make it possible for assistive technologies to
successfully present the content's information to the user. For example,
a picture that you were supposed to click on to go to a topic would not
be accessible to a person who was blind unless text alternatives for the
picture were provided in a way that user agents including assistive
technologies can find and display them. The key here is that the text
alternative must be included in a way that user agents including
assistive technologies can understand and use – in a way that is
"Accessibility Supported."

Another example would be a custom control that is included on a Web
page. In this case, a standard user agent would not ordinarily be able
to present an alternative to the user. If, however, information about
the control including its name, role, value, how to set it etc. are
provided in a way that assistive technologies can understand and control
them, then users with assistive technologies will be able to use these
controls.

When new technologies are introduced, two things must happen in order
for people using assistive technologies to be able to access them.
First, the technologies must be designed in a way that user agents
including assistive technologies could access all the information they
need to present the content to the user. Secondly, the user agents and
assistive technologies may need to be redesigned or modified to be able
to actually work with these new technologies.

"*Accessibility Supported*" means that both of these have been done and
that the technology will work with user agents and assistive technologies.


        Level of Assistive Technology Support Needed for "Accessibility
        Support"

This topic raises the question of how many or which assistive
technologies must support a Web technology in order for that Web
technology to be considered "accessibility supported". The WCAG Working
group and the W3C do not specify which or how many assistive
technologies must support a Web technology in order for it to be
classified as accessibility supported. This is a complex topic and one
that varies both by environment and by language. There is a need for an
external and international dialogue on this topic. Some notes to help in
understanding and exploring this topic are:

 1.

    Accessibility support of Web technologies varies by environment

      *

        Web technologies may only need to be supported by those specific
        user agents and assistive technologies deployed at a company.
        (These may be older versions of user agents and assistive
        technologies or the very newest versions).

      *

        Content posted to the public Web may need to work with a broader
        range of user agents and assistive technologies, including older
        versions.

 2.

    Accessibility support of Web technologies varies by language (and
    dialect)

      *

        There are different levels of older assistive technologies
        support in different languages and even countries. Some
        environments or countries may provide free assistive technologies.

 3.

    New technologies won't be supported in older assistive technologies

      *

        Clearly, a new technology cannot be supported by all past
        assistive technologies, so requiring that a technology be
        supported by all assistive technologies is not possible.

 4.

    Support for a single older assistive technology is usually not
    sufficient

      *

        Support by just one assistive technology (for a given
        disability) would not usually be enough, especially if most
        users who need it in order to access content do not have and
        cannot afford that assistive technology. The exception here
        would be information distributed to company employees only where
        they all have one assistive technology (of that type).

 5.

    Currently assistive technology that is affordable by the general
    public is often very poor

      *

        Creating content that can't be used by the general public with
        disabilities should be avoided. In many cases, the cost of
        assistive technologies is too high for users who need it. Also,
        the capabilities of free or low cost AT is often so poor today
        that Web content cannot be realistically restricted to this
        lowest (or even middle) common denominator. This creates a very
        difficult dilemma that needs to be addressed.

The Working Group, therefore, limited itself to defining what
constituted support and defers the judgment of how much, how many, or
which AT must support a technology to the community and to entities
closer to each situation that set requirements for an organization,
purchase, community, etc.

The Working Group encourages more discussion of this topic in the
general forum of society since this lack of generally available yet
robust assistive technologies is a problem that affects users,
technology developers and authors negatively.


        Technical Definition of "Accessibility Support"

Basically, a Web content technology is "accessibility supported" when
users' assistive technologies will work with the Web technologies *AND*
when the accessibility features of mainstream technologies will work
with the technology. Specifically, to qualify as an
accessibility-supported technology, the following must be true for a
technology:

accessibility supported

    supported by users' assistive technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#atdef> as well as
    the accessibility features in browsers and other user agents
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    To qualify as an accessibility-supported use of a Web content
    technology (or feature of a technology), both 1 and 2 must be
    satisfied for a Web content technology (or feature):

     1.

        *The way that the Web content technology
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#technologydef>
        is used must be supported by users' assistive technology (AT).*
        This means that the way that the technology is used has been
        tested for interoperability with users' assistive technology in
        the human language(s)
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>
        of the content,

        *AND*

     2.

        *The Web content technology must have accessibility-supported
        user agents that are available to users.* This means that at
        least one of the following four statements is true:

         1.

            The technology is supported natively in widely-distributed
            user agents that are also accessibility supported (such as
            HTML and CSS);

            *OR*

         2.

            The technology is supported in a widely-distributed plug-in
            that is also accessibility supported;

            *OR*

         3.

            The content is available in a closed environment, such as a
            university or corporate network, where the user agent
            required by the technology and used by the organization is
            also accessibility supported;

            *OR*

         4.

            The user agent(s) that support the technology are
            accessibility supported and are available for download or
            purchase in a way that:

              *

                does not cost a person with a disability any more than a
                person without a disability *and*

              *

                is as easy to find and obtain for a person with a
                disability as it is for a person without disabilities.

    /Note 1: /The WCAG Working group and the W3C do not specify which or
    how much support by assistive technologies there must be for a
    particular use of a Web technology in order for it to be classified
    as accessibility supported. (See Level of Assistive Technology
    Support Needed for "Accessibility Support"
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-support-level-head>.)

    /Note 2: /Web technologies can be used in ways that are not
    accessibility supported as long as they are not relied upon
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#reliedupondef> and
    the page as a whole meets the conformance requirements, including
    /Conformance Requirement 4: Only Accessibility-Supported Ways of
    Using Technologies
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc4>/ and
    /Conformance Requirement 5: Non-Interference
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc5>/, are met.

    /Note 3: /When a Web Technology
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#technologydef> is
    used in a way that is "accessibility supported," it does not imply
    that the entire technology or all uses of the technology are
    supported. Most technologies, including HTML, lack support for at
    least one feature or use. Pages conform to WCAG only if the uses of
    the technology that are accessibility supported can be relied upon
    to meet WCAG requirements.

    /Note 4: /When citing Web content technologies that have multiple
    versions, the version(s) supported should be specified.

    /Note 5: /One way for authors to locate uses of a technology that
    are accessibility supported would be to consult compilations of uses
    that are documented to be accessibility supported. (See
    Understanding Accessibility-Supported Web Technology Uses
    <https://www.w3.org/TR/UNDERSTANDING-WCAG20/conformance.html#uc-documented-lists-head>.)
    Authors, companies, technology vendors, or others may document
    accessibility-supported ways of using Web content technologies.
    However, all ways of using technologies in the documentation would
    need to meet the definition of accessibility-supported Web content
    technologies above.


        Understanding Accessibility-Supported Web Technology Uses

Individual authors will not usually be able to do all of the testing
necessary to determine which ways of using which Web technologies are
actually supported by which versions of assistive technologies and user
agents. Authors may therefore rely on publicly documented compilations
that document which assistive technologies support which ways of using
which Web technologies. By public, we do not mean that the compilation
and its documentation are necessarily generated by a public agency, only
that they are available to the public. Anyone can create publicly
documented compilations of "Web Technology Uses and their Accessibility
Support." People may create compilations and give them names that
authors can refer to them by. As long as they are publicly documented,
authors or customers etc. can easily select uses that meet their needs.
Customers or others can pick technologies that fit their environment or
language at any point in time and specify those to be used in creating
their content. Authors are strongly encouraged to use sources that have
an established reputation for accuracy and usefulness. Technology
developers are strongly encouraged to provide information about the
accessibility support for their technologies. The Working Group
anticipates that only documents that provide accurate information and
benefit both authors and users will achieve market recognition in the
long term.

There is no requirement in WCAG that a publicly documented compilation
be used or that only technology uses from such a compilation be used.
The publicly documented compilations are described only as a method to
make an otherwise critical, but somewhat complicated, aspect of
conformance easier for authors who are not themselves experts on
assistive technology support (or who just don't have the time to keep up
with advances in mainstream and assistive technology support for each
other).

Authors, companies or others may wish to create and use their own
compilations of accessibility-supported technology uses and this is
allowed in meeting WCAG. Customers, companies or others may, however,
specify that technology uses from a custom or public compilation be
used. See Appendix B Documenting Accessibility Support for Uses of a Web
Technology <#accessibility-support-documenting>.


        Accessibility Support Statements

Examples of ways in which a conformance claim might document its
accessibility support include:

 1.

    This conformance claim meets the accessibility support requirement
    based on testing content in language(s) of the content with User
    Agents A, B, and C, and Assistive Technologies X, Y, and Z. This
    means that we were able to pass all of the success criteria for
    level A of WCAG 2.0 using these products.

 2.

    This conformance claim meets the accessibility support requirement
    for the language(s) of the content based on the use of techniques
    and user agent notes documented in Techniques for WCAG 2.0. It is
    also based on the accessibility support documentation for the
    technologies (that we relied upon for conformance), which is
    available in " XYZ Organization's Documentation of Accessibility
    Support."

 3.

    This conformance claim meets the accessibility support requirement
    for the language(s) of the content based on the use of technology Z
    as documented in "Technology Z accessibility supported techniques
    for WCAG 2.0."

 4.

    This conformance claim meets the accessibility support requirement
    for the language of the content based on the use of Accessibility
    Guidelines for Technology A and Accessibility Guidelines for
    Technology B. User agent and assistive technology support
    information can be found in "Product XYZ Accessibility Support
    Requirements", which are documented in these guidelines.


      Understanding "Programmatically Determined"

Several Success Criteria require that content (or certain aspects of
content) can be "programmatically determined." This means that the
content is authored in such a way that user agents, including assistive
technologies, can access the information.

In order for content created with Web technologies (such as HTML, CSS,
PDF, GIF, MPEG, Flash etc.) to be accessible to people with different
types of disabilities, it is essential that the technologies used work
with the accessibility features of browsers and other user agents,
including assistive technologies. In order for something to meet a
Success Criterion that requires it to be "programmatically determined,"
it would need to be implemented using a technology that has assistive
technology support.

Content that can be "programmatically determined" can be transformed (by
user agents including AT) into different sensory formats (e.g., visual,
auditory) or styles of presentation need by individual users. If
existing assistive technologies cannot do this, then the information
cannot be said to be programmatically determined.

The term was created in order to allow the working group to clearly
identify those places where information had to be accessible to
assistive technologies (and other user agents acting as accessibility
aids) without specifying exactly how this needed to be done. This is
important because of the continually changing nature of the
technologies. The term allows the guidelines to identify what needs to
be "programmatically determined" in order to meet the guidelines, and
then have separate documents (the How to Meet, Understanding, and
Technique documents), which can be updated over time, list the specific
techniques that will work and be sufficient at any point in time based
on user agent and assistive technology support.


        "Accessibility Supported" vs. "Programmatically Determined"

"Accessibility supported" relates to support by user agents (including
assistive technologies) of particular ways of using Web technologies.
Uses of Web technologies that are accessibility supported will work with
assistive technologies and access features in mainstream user agents
(browsers and players etc.).

"Programmatically determined" relates to the information in Web Content.
If technologies that are accessibility supported are used properly, then
assistive technologies and user agents can access the information in the
content (i.e., programmatically determine the information in the
content) and present it to the user.

The two concepts work together to ensure that information can be
presented to the user by user agents including assistive technologies.
Authors must rely only on uses of technologies that are
accessibility-supported — and must use them properly in order for the
information to be programmatically determinable — and hence presentable,
by assistive technologies and user agents to users with disabilities.


      Understanding Conforming Alternate Versions

Conformance requirement #1 allows non-conforming pages to be included
within the scope of conformance as long as they have a "conforming
alternate version". The conforming alternative version is defined as:

conforming alternate version

    version that

     1.

        conforms at the designated level, and

     2.

        provides all of the same information and functionality
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#functiondef> in
        the same human language
        <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#human-langdef>, and

     3.

        is as up to date as the non-conforming content, and

     4.

        for which at least one of the following is true:

         1.

            the conforming version can be reached from the
            non-conforming page via an accessibility-supported
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#accessibility-supporteddef>
            mechanism
            <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#mechanismdef>,
            or

         2.

            the non-conforming version can only be reached from the
            conforming version, or

         3.

            the non-conforming version can only be reached from a
            conforming page that also provides a mechanism to reach the
            conforming version

    /Note 1: /In this definition, "can only be reached" means that there
    is some mechanism, such as a conditional redirect, that prevents a
    user from "reaching" (loading) the non-conforming page unless the
    user had just come from the conforming version.

    /Note 2: /The alternate version does not need to be matched page for
    page with the original (e.g., the conforming alternate version may
    consist of multiple pages).

    /Note 3: /If multiple language versions are available, then
    conforming alternate versions are required for each language offered.

    /Note 4: /Alternate versions may be provided to accommodate
    different technology environments or user groups. Each version
    should be as conformant as possible. One version would need to be
    fully conformant in order to meet conformance requirement 1
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#cc1>.

    /Note 5: /The conforming alternative version does not need to reside
    within the scope of conformance, or even on the same Web site, as
    long as it is as freely available as the non-conforming version.

    /Note 6: /Alternate versions should not be confused with
    supplementary content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#suppcontentdef>,
    which support the original page and enhance comprehension.

    /Note 7: /Setting user preferences within the content to produce a
    conforming version is an acceptable mechanism for reaching another
    version as long as the method used to set the preferences is
    accessibility supported.

This ensures that all of the information and all of the functionality
that is on the pages inside of the scope of conformance is available on
conforming Web pages.


        Why permit alternate versions?

Why does WCAG permit conforming alternate versions of Web pages to be
included in conformance claims? That is, why include pages that do not
satisfy the Success Criteria for a conformance level in the scope of
conformance or a claim?

  *

    Sometimes, pages use technologies that are not yet accessibility
    supported. When a new technology emerges, assistive technology
    support may lag behind, or may only be available to some target
    audiences. So authors may not be able to rely on the new technology
    for all users. However, there may be other benefits to using the new
    technology, e.g., better performance, a wider range of modalities
    available, etc. The alternate version requirement allows authors to
    include such Web pages in their Web site by providing an accessible
    alternative page in technologies that are accessibility supported.
    Users for whom the new technology is adequately supported get the
    benefits of the new version. Authors who look ahead to future
    accessibility support can satisfy the Success Criteria now with the
    alternate version page, and also work with the other page to build
    in future access when assistive technology (AT) support is available.

  *

    For a variety of reasons, it may not be possible to modify some
    content on a Web page. For instance,

      o

        It may be critical to include an exact visual copy of a document
        for legal or historical reasons

      o

        The Web page may be included in a site but the site owner may
        not have the legal rights to modify the content on the original page

      o

        The company may not legally be able to remove, or alter in any
        way, something that was previously posted.

      o

        An author may not have permission to alter a document from
        another department, agency, or company

  *

    Sometimes, the best experience for users with certain types of
    disabilities is provided by tailoring a Web page specifically to
    accommodate that disability. In such a situation, it may not be
    possible or practical to make the Web page accommodate all
    disabilities by satisfying all of the Success Criteria. The
    alternate versions requirement permits such specialized pages to be
    included within a conformance claim as long as there is a fully
    conformant 'alternate version' page.

  *

    Many sites which are committed to accessibility have large
    quantities of legacy documents. While the information has been made
    available in accessible formats, there would be significant
    institutional resistance and procedural obstacles to removing these
    files en mass. Some organizations, especially governmental bodies,
    give precedence to traditional print-oriented processes. Even as
    these organizations have adapted to Internet publishing and embraced
    the need for accessible formats, they still retain a paper mindset
    and often insist on formats designed for hard copy as the "primary"
    version (even for documents that are only ever "published"
    electronically). Although the Working Group feels these approaches
    should be deprecated it does not feel they can be forbidden so long
    as accessible versions are readily available.

A concern when permitting Web pages that do not satisfy the Success
Criteria is that people with disabilities will encounter these
non-conforming pages, not be able to access their content, and not be
able to find the “conforming alternate version." A key part of the
Alternate Versions provision, therefore, is the ability to find the
conforming page (the alternate version) from the non-conforming page
when it is encountered. The conformance requirement that permits
alternate pages, therefore, also requires a way for users to find the
accessible version among the alternate versions.

Note that providing an alternate version is a fallback option for
conformance to WCAG and the preferred method of conformance is to make
all content directly accessible.


        Techniques for Providing a Conforming Alternate Version

The most important part of providing a conforming alternate version is
providing a mechanism to find it from the non-conforming version. A
number of different methods for doing this have been identified since
particular techniques may not always be possible for specific
technologies or situations. For example, if the author has control of
the server there are some powerful techniques that will allow users to
always have the choice up front. In many cases however the author may
not have control of the services on their Web server. In these cases
other techniques are provided. A link on the non-conforming page is
another powerful technique but not all non-conforming technologies
support hypertext links.

Below are the techniques that have been identified to date. We expect
that additional techniques will also be developed over time and they
will be added here as they arise and the support for these approaches by
user agents including assistive technologies can be demonstrated. For
example a developer of a new technology that some assistive technologies
cannot access might build in a feature that would allow those
technologies to automatically present a link to users that could take
them to an alternate version.


          Sufficient Techniques for Providing Conforming Alternative
          Versions of Web pages

Each numbered item in this section represents a technique or combination
of techniques that the WCAG Working Group deems sufficient for meeting
this Success Criterion. However, it is not necessary to use these
particular techniques. For information on using other techniques, see
/Understanding Techniques for WCAG Success Criteria
<#understanding-techniques>/, particularly the "Other Techniques" section.

 1.

    G136: Providing a link at the beginning of a nonconforming Web page
    that points to a conforming alternate version
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G136>

 2.

    G190: Providing a link adjacent to or associated with a
    non-conforming object that links to a conforming alternate version
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/G190>

 3.

    C29: Using a style switcher to provide a conforming alternate
    version <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/C29>
    (CSS)

 4.

    SCR38: Creating a conforming alternate version for a web page
    designed with progressive enhancement
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SCR38>
    (Scripting)

 5.

    SVR2: Using .htaccess to ensure that the only way to access
    non-conforming content is from conforming content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SVR2> (SERVER)

 6.

    SVR3: Using HTTP referer to ensure that the only way to access
    non-conforming content is from conforming content
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SVR3> (SERVER)

 7.

    SVR4: Allowing users to provide preferences for the display of
    conforming alternate versions
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/SVR4> (SERVER)


          Common Failures Identified by the Working Group

  *

    F19: Failure of Conformance Requirement 1 due to not providing a
    method for the user to find the alternative conforming version of a
    non-conforming Web page
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20160317/F19>


          Additional Techniques (Advisory) for providing conforming
          alternative versions of Web pages

  *

    Providing reciprocal links between conforming and non-conforming
    versions (future link)

  *

    Excluding non-conforming content from search results (future link)

  *

    Using content negotiation (future link)

  *

    Not displaying content that relies on technologies that are not
    accessibility-supported when the technology is turned off or not
    supported. (future link)

  *

    Using metadata to allow location of a conforming alternative version
    from the URI of a non-conforming page (future link)


          Examples of Conforming Alternate Versions

  *

    *An intranet site with multiple versions. *

    A large company was concerned that the use of emerging Web
    technologies on an intranet site might limit their ability to
    address the needs of diverse office locations that have different
    technology bases and individual employees who use a wide variety of
    user agents and assistive technologies. To address these concerns,
    the company created an alternate version of the content that met all
    Level A Success Criteria using a more limited set of uses of
    accessibility-supported content technologies. The two versions link
    to each other.

  *

    *An informational site ensuring backward compatibility.*

    An information site covers a wide variety of subjects and wants to
    enable visitors to quickly find the topics they are looking for. To
    do this, the site has implemented an interactive menu system that is
    only supported in the most recent version of two popular user
    agents. To ensure that visitors who do not use these specific user
    agents are still able to effectively use the site, a navigation
    mechanism that does not depend on the interactive menu system is
    presented to user agents that do not support the newer technology.


      Understanding "Web Page"

The definition of a Web Page is:

Web page

    a non-embedded resource obtained from a single URI using HTTP plus
    any other resources that are used in the rendering or intended to be
    rendered together with it by a user agent
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/#useragentdef>

    /Note 1: /Although any "other resources" would be rendered together
    with the primary resource, they would not necessarily be rendered
    simultaneously with each other.

    /Note 2: /For the purposes of conformance with these guidelines, a
    resource must be "non-embedded" within the scope of conformance to
    be considered a Web page.

    /Example 1: /A Web resource including all embedded images and media.

    /Example 2: /A Web mail program built using Asynchronous JavaScript
    and XML (AJAX). The program lives entirely at
    http://example.com/mail, but includes an inbox, a contacts area and
    a calendar. Links or buttons are provided that cause the inbox,
    contacts, or calendar to display, but do not change the URI of the
    page as a whole.

    /Example 3: /A customizable portal site, where users can choose
    content to display from a set of different content modules.

    /Example 4: /When you enter "http://shopping.example.com/" in your
    browser, you enter a movie-like interactive shopping environment
    where you visually move around in a store dragging products off of
    the shelves around you and into a visual shopping cart in front of
    you. Clicking on a product causes it to be demonstrated with a
    specification sheet floating alongside. This might be a single-page
    Web site or just one page within a Web site.

It is important to note that, in this standard, the term "Web page"
includes much more than static HTML pages. The term 'Web Page' was used
in these guidelines to allow the guidelines to be more understandable.
But the term has grown in meaning with advancing technologies to
encompass a wide range of technologies, many of which are not at all
'page-like'. It also includes the increasingly dynamic Web pages that
are emerging on the Web, including "pages" that can present entire
virtual interactive communities. For example, the term "Web page" would
include an immersive interactive movie-like experience that you find at
a single URI.


      Understanding "Text Alternatives"

A text alternative is text that is used in place of non-text content for
those who cannot view the non-text content. Non-text content includes
such things as pictures, charts, applets, audio files, etc. People who
cannot see for example would not be able to see information presented in
a picture or chart. A text alternative is therefore provided that allows
the user to be able to convert the information (the text) into speech.
In the future, having the information in text also makes it possible to
translate the information into sign language, into pictures, or into a
simpler form of writing.

In order for people with disabilities to be able to use this text - the
text must be "programmatically determinable." This means that the text
must be able to be read and used by the assistive technologies (and the
accessibility features in browsers) that people with disabilities use.

It must also be possible for people using assistive technologies to find
these text alternatives when they encounter non-text content that they
cannot use. To accomplish this, we say that the text must be
"programmatically associated" with the non-text content. This means that
the user must be able to use their assistive technology to find the
alternative text (that they can use) when they land on the non-text
content (that they can't use).

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix A How to refer to WCAG 2.0 from other documents

The following examples show how to reference WCAG 2.0 in various
situations. For additional guidance, see Referencing and Linking to WAI
Guidelines and Technical Documents
<http://www.w3.org/WAI/intro/linking.html>.

Please note that the following language for referencing WCAG 2.0 can be
inserted into your own documents.


      Information references

When referencing WCAG 2.0 in an informational fashion, the following
format can be used.

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/, Latest version at
http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/)/

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      When referring to WCAG 2.0 from another standard with a "should"
      statement

When referencing WCAG 2.0 from within a *should* statement in a standard
(or advisory statement in a regulation), then the full WCAG 2.0 should
be referenced. This would mean that all three levels of WCAG 2.0 should
be considered but that none are required. The format for referencing
WCAG 2.0 from a "should" statement therefore, is:

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      When referring to WCAG 2.0 from another standard with a "shall or
      must" statement

When citing WCAG 2.0 as part of a requirement (e.g., a *shall or must *
statement in a standard or regulation), the reference must include the
specific parts of WCAG 2.0 that are intended to be required. When
referencing WCAG 2.0 in this manner, the following rules apply:

 1.

    Conformance at any level of WCAG 2.0 requires that all of the Level
    A Success Criteria be met. References to WCAG 2.0 conformance cannot
    be for any subset of Level A.

 2.

    Beyond Level A, a "shall or must" reference may include any subset
    of provisions in Levels AA and AAA. For example, "/all of Level A
    and [some specific list of Success Criteria in Level AA and Level
    AAA]/" be met.

 3.

    If Level AA conformance to WCAG 2.0 is specified, then all Level A
    and all Level AA Success Criteria must be met.

 4.

    If Level AAA conformance to WCAG 2.0 is specified, then all Level A,
    all Level AA, and all Level AAA Success Criteria must be met.

    /Note 1: /It is not recommended that Level AAA conformance ever be
    required for entire sites as a general policy because it is not
    possible to satisfy all Level AAA Success Criteria for some content.

    /Note 2: /The sets of Success Criteria defined in WCAG are
    interdependent and individual Success Criteria rely on each other's
    definitions in ways which may not be immediately obvious to the
    reader. Any set of Success Criteria must include all of the Level A
    provisions.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Examples

*To cite only the Level A Success Criteria (Single-A conformance):*

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A Success Criteria.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

*To cite the Levels A and AA Success Criteria (Double-A conformance):*

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A & Level AA Success Criteria.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

*To cite Level A Success Criteria and selected Success Criteria from
Level AA and Level AAA: *

/Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A Success Criteria plus Success
Criteria 1.x.x, 2.y.y, … 3.z.z.
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)/

*Example of use of a WCAG reference in a "shall or must" statement.*

All Web content on publicly available Web sites shall conform to Web
Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0, W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Recommendation XX Month Year, Level A Success Criteria plus Success
Criteria 1.2.3, 2.4.5-6, 3.1.2
(http://www.w3.org/TR/200X/REC-WCAG20-20081211/)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Referring to content from WCAG support documents

Techniques, which are listed in Understanding WCAG 2.0 and described in
other supporting documents, are not part of the normative WCAG 2.0
Recommendation and should not be cited using the citation for the WCAG
2.0 Recommendation itself. References to techniques in support documents
should be cited separately.

Techniques can be cited based on the individual Technique document or on
the master WCAG 2.0 Techniques document. For example, the technique
"Using alt attributes on img elements" could be cited as

/"Using alt attributes on img elements," W3C World Wide Web Consortium
Note. (URI: {URI of technique}) /

or

/W3C World Wide Web Consortium (200x): WCAG2.0 HTML Techniques (URI:
{URI of HTML Techniques})/

*Techniques are not designed to be referenced as "required"* from any
standard or regulation.Standards and regulations should not make any
specific technique mandatory, though they may choose to recommend
techniques.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix B Documenting Accessibility Support for Uses of a Web
    Technology

The documentation of accessibility support for uses of a Web technology
provides the information needed to determine whether it is possible to
satisfy the WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria for a particular environment.

Accessibility Support documentation for uses of a Web technology
includes the following information:

  *

    The version or versions of the technology

  *

    For each user agent or plug-in that supports this version of the
    technology:

      o

        The version of the user agent or plug-in, including the
        operating system or platform

      o

        Ways of using the technology that are supported by the user
        agent; ideally, there are ways to meet all of the success
        criteria, but exceptions should be noted.

      o

        Known limitations of the user agent support for uses of the
        technology to meet Success Criteria

  *

    For each assistive technology that supports the Web technology:

      o

        The version of the assistive technology, including the operating
        system or platform

  *

    For each host user agent that is supported by this version of the
    assistive technology:

      o

        Ways of using the technology supported by the assistive
        technology for this user agent

      o

        Known limitations in the support of uses of the technology to
        meet success criteria when using the assistive technology with
        this user agent

Target environments are defined by the user agents and assistive
technologies available to its users. Documentation of accessibility
support involves detailed understanding of the ways to use functionality
of a technology to meet success criteria, and also of user agents and
assistive technology. Because of this, vendors and developers of Web
technologies and user agents are encouraged to provide this information
about the accessibility support of their products. Similarly, developers
and vendors of assistive technology are encouraged to provide this
information about the ways to use Web technologies that are supported by
their products. Authors should need to document the accessibility
supported ways to use a technology only when there is not reliable
documentation available from vendors or testing groups for those uses.

For a controlled environment, such as a corporate workplace, the user
agents and assistive technologies available may be a specific set of
versions of user agents on a specific set of platforms. To determine
whether uses of a Web technology are accessibility supported in a target
environment, an author checks that the user agents and assistive
technologies available are in the set of supported user agents and
assistive technologies listed for those uses in the Accessibility
Support documentation.

For a target environment like the Internet, authors may need to consider
a much larger set of user agents, including older versions, and on a
wider variety of platforms.

Environments that use different natural languages are different target
environments. For example, the accessibility-supported ways of using
technologies for an English language environment may differ from those
for an Arabic language environment, since there may be different user
agents and assistive technologies that support these languages.

The documentation includes version-specific information about all the
assistive technologies and all the user agents and the ways that they
interact with one another. If support in these user agents is similar,
it will be straightforward for an author to decide if a documented way
of using a technology is accessibility supported. If the uses supported
are different in different versions, authors can only rely on the uses
that are supported in the versions available to their users in
determining accessibility support.

If a way of using a technology is not relied upon for conformance, the
absence of accessibility support for that use does not prevent
conformance of the Web page. So if the unsupported use does not occur in
the content, or if there is a conforming version of that content
available, the Web page still conforms. For instance, lack of
accessibility support for interactive controls in a Web technology would
not prevent uses of the Web technology for non-interactive content that
are accessibility supported.


    Appendix C Understanding Metadata

This section discusses metadata techniques that can be employed to
satisfy WCAG 2.0 Success Criteria. For more information about metadata
see resources below.

At its most basic level, metadata is essentially 'data about data' and
is used to both describe and find resources.

Metadata is a powerful tool that can be used for describing Web pages
and accessible components of Web pages as well as associating alternate
versions of Web content to each other. These descriptions in turn allows
users to locate specific information they need or prefer.

In conjunction with WCAG, metadata can play a number of roles including:

 1.

    Metadata can be used to associate conforming alternate versions of
    Web pages with Web pages which do not conform, in order to allow
    users to find the conforming alternate version when they land on a
    non-conforming page that they cannot use.

 2.

    Metadata can be used to locate and also to describe alternate pages
    where there are multiple versions of a page which have been
    developed, especially where the alternate pages are optimized for
    individuals with different disabilities. The user can use the
    metadata both to locate the alternate versions and to identify
    characteristics of the versions, so that they can find the one that
    best meets their needs.

 3.

    In addition to being used for whole pages (as in #1 and #2 above),
    metadata can be used to describe alternate versions of subcomponents
    of a page. Again, the metadata can be used to find alternate
    versions of a Web page component as well as to get descriptions of
    the alternate versions ( if there are several) in order to determine
    which one would best meet the user's needs.


      Metadata Resources

Metadata descriptions often provide values from defined, agreed
vocabularies such as the resource's subject matter or its date of
publication, and are machine readable - software that understands the
metadata scheme in use can do useful tasks not feasible otherwise.
Typically, an object having metadata may have one or more such metadata
descriptions.

Well-known specifications (schemas) for metadata include:

  *

    Metadata Encoding and Transmission Standard (METS) scheme
    <http://www.loc.gov/standards/mets/>

  *

    Dublin Core Metadata Initiative (DCMI) terms for cross-disciplinary
    resources <http://dublincore.org/>

  *

    IEEE Standards <http://www.ieee.org/index.html>

There are some tools available to provide resource descriptions, or they
can be provided manually. The more easily the metadata can be created
and collected at point of creation of a resource or at point of
publication, the more efficient the process and the more likely it is to
take place.

Some examples include:

  *

    DC-dot <http://www.ukoln.ac.uk/metadata/dcdot/>

Accessibility metadata implementations include:

  *

    The Inclusive Learning Exchange (TILE) <http://barrierfree.ca/tile/>

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix D Acknowledgements

This publication has been funded in part with U.S. Federal funds from
the Department of Education, National Institute on Disability,
Independent Living, and Rehabilitation Research (NIDILRR), initially
under contract number ED-OSE-10-C-0067 and currently under contract
number HHSP23301500054C. The content of this publication does not
necessarily reflect the views or policies of the U.S. Department of
Education, nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or
organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government.

Additional information about participation in the Web Content
Accessibility Guidelines Working Group (WCAG WG) can be found on the
Working Group home page <http://www.w3.org/WAI/GL/>.


      Participants of the WCAG WG active in the development of this
      document:

  *

    Paul Adam (Deque)

  *

    Kathleen Anderson

  *

    Jon Avila (SSB Bart Group)

  *

    Bruce Bailey (U.S. Access Board)

  *

    Laura Carlson

  *

    Louis Cheng (Google)

  *

    Michael Cooper (W3C)

  *

    Wayne Dick

  *

    Eric Eggert (W3C)

  *

    Michael Elledge

  *

    Detlev Fischer

  *

    John Foliot (Deque)

  *

    Loretta Guarino Reid (Google)

  *

    Jon Gunderson

  *

    Katie Haritos-Shea

  *

    Marc Johlic (IBM)

  *

    Barry Johnson (Deque)

  *

    Andrew Kirkpatrick (Adobe)

  *

    David MacDonald

  *

    Erich Manser (IBM)

  *

    James Nurthen (Oracle)

  *

    Joshue O Connor

  *

    Jan Richards

  *

    Alan Smith

  *

    Adam Solomon

  *

    Makoto Ueki

  *

    Gregg Vanderheiden

  *

    Kathleen Wahlbin

  *

    Can Wang (Zhejiang University)

  *

    Jason White (Educational Testing Service)

  *

    Kenny Zhang (W3C)

------------------------------------------------------------------------


      Other previously active WCAG WG participants and other
      contributors to WCAG 2.0 or supporting resources

Shadi Abou-Zahra, Jim Allan, Jenae Andershonis, Wilhelm Joys Andersen,
Andrew Arch, Avi Arditti, Aries Arditi, Jon Avila, Mark Barratt, Mike
Barta, Sandy Bartell, Kynn Bartlett, Chris Beer, Charles Belov, Marco
Bertoni, Harvey Bingham, Chris Blouch, Paul Bohman, Frederick Boland,
Denis Boudreau, Patrice Bourlon, Judy Brewer, Andy Brown, Dick Brown,
Doyle Burnett, Raven Calais, Ben Caldwell, Alastair Campbell, Laura
Carlson, Tomas Caspers, Roberto Castaldo, Sofia Celic-Li, Sambhavi
Chandrashekar, Mike Cherim, Jonathan Chetwynd, Wendy Chisholm, Alan
Chuter, David M Clark, Joe Clark, Darcy Clarke, James Coltham, Vivienne
Conway, Earl Cousins, James Craig, Tom Croucher, Pierce Crowell, Nir
Dagan, Daniel Dardailler, Geoff Deering, Sébastien Delorme, Pete
DeVasto, Wayne Dick, Iyad Abu Doush, Sylvie Duchateau, Cherie Eckholm,
Roberto Ellero, Don Evans, Gavin Evans, Neal Ewers, Steve Faulkner,
Bengt Farre, Lainey Feingold, Wilco Fiers, Michel Fitos, Alan J.
Flavell, Nikolaos Floratos, Kentarou Fukuda, Miguel Garcia, P.J.
Gardner, Alistair Garrison, Greg Gay, Becky Gibson, Al Gilman, Kerstin
Goldsmith, Michael Grade, Karl Groves, Jon Gunderson, Emmanuelle
Gutiérrez y Restrepo, Brian Hardy, Eric Hansen, Benjamin Hawkes-Lewis,
Sean Hayes, Shawn Henry, Hans Hillen, Donovan Hipke, Bjoern Hoehrmann,
Allen Hoffman, Chris Hofstader, Yvette Hoitink, Martijn Houtepen, Carlos
Iglesias, Jonas Jacek, Ian Jacobs, Phill Jenkins, Duff Johnson, Jyotsna
Kaki, Shilpi Kapoor, Leonard R. Kasday, Kazuhito Kidachi, Ken Kipness,
John Kirkwood, Jason Kiss, Johannes Koch, Marja-Riitta Koivunen, Maureen
Kraft, Preety Kumar, Kristjan Kure, Andrew LaHart, Gez Lemon, Chuck
Letourneau, Aurélien Levy, Harry Loots, Scott Luebking, Tim Lacy, Jim
Ley, Alex Li, William Loughborough, Greg Lowney, N Maffeo, Mark
Magennis, Kapsi Maria, Luca Mascaro, Matt May, Sheena McCullagh, Liam
McGee, Jens Meiert, Niqui Merret, Jonathan Metz, Alessandro Miele,
Steven Miller, Mathew J Mirabella, Matt May, Marti McCuller, Sorcha
Moore, Mary Jo Mueller, Charles F. Munat, Robert Neff, Charles Nevile,
Liddy Nevile, Dylan Nicholson, Bruno von Niman, Tim Noonan, Sebastiano
Nutarelli, Graham Oliver, Sean B. Palmer, Sailesh Panchang, Devarshi
Pant, Nigel Peck, Anne Pemberton, David Poehlman, Ian Pouncey, Charles
Pritchard, Kerstin Probiesch, W Reagan, Adam Victor Reed, Chris Reeve,
Chris Ridpath, Lee Roberts, Mark Rogers, Raph de Rooij, Gregory J.
Rosmaita, Matthew Ross, Sharron Rush, Joel Sanda, Janina Sajka, Roberto
Scano, Gordon Schantz, Tim van Schie, Wolf Schmidt, Stefan Schnabel,
Lisa Seeman, Cynthia Shelly, Glenda Sims, John Slatin, Becky Smith,
Jared Smith, Andi Snow-Weaver, Neil Soiffer, Jeanne Spellman, Mike
Squillace, Michael Stenitzer, Diane Stottlemyer, Christophe Strobbe,
Sarah J Swierenga, Jim Thatcher, Terry Thompson, Justin Thorp, David
Todd, Mary Utt, Jean Vanderdonckt, Carlos A Velasco, Eric Velleman, Gijs
Veyfeyken, Dena Wainwright, Paul Walsch, Daman Wandke, Richard Warren,
Elle Waters, Takayuki Watanabe, Léonie Watson, Gian Wild, David Wooley,
Wu Wei, Leona Zumbo.

------------------------------------------------------------------------


    Appendix E References

ANSI-HFES-100-1988
    ANSI/HFS 100-1988, American National Standard for Human Factors
    Engineering of Visual Display Terminal Workstations, Section 6, pp.
    17-20.
ARDITI
    Arditi, A. (2002). Effective color contrast: designing for people
    with partial sight and color deficiencies. New York, Arlene R.
    Gordon Research Institute, Lighthouse International.
ARDITI-FAYE
    Arditi, A. and Faye, E. (2004). Monocular and binocular letter
    contrast sensitivity and letter acuity in a diverse ophthalmologic
    practice. Supplement to Optometry and Vision Science, 81 (12S), 287.
ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH
    Arditi, A. and Knoblauch, K. (1994). Choosing effective display
    colors for the partially-sighted. Society for Information Display
    International Symposium Digest of Technical Papers, 25, 32-35.
ARDITI-KNOBLAUCH-1996
    Arditi, A. and Knoblauch, K. (1996). Effective color contrast and
    low vision. In B. Rosenthal and R. Cole (Eds.) Functional Assessment
    of Low Vision. St. Louis, Mosby, 129-135.
CAPTCHA
    The CAPTCHA Project, Carnegie Mellon University. The project is
    online at http://www.captcha.net <http://www.captcha.net/>.
GITTINGS-FOZARD
    Gittings, NS and Fozard, JL (1986). Age related changes in visual
    acuity. Experimental Gerontology, 21(4-5), 423-433.
HARDING-BINNIE
    Harding G. F. A. and Binnie, C.D., Independent Analysis of the ITC
    Photosensitive Epilepsy Calibration Test Tape. 2002.
HEARING-AID-INT
    Levitt, H., Kozma-Spytek, L., & Harkins, J. (2005). In-the-ear
    measurements of interference in hearing aids from digital wireless
    telephones. Seminars in Hearing, 26(2), 87.
IEC-4WD
    IEC/4WD 61966-2-1: Colour Measurement and Management in Multimedia
    Systems and Equipment - Part 2.1: Default Colour Space - sRGB. May
    5, 1998.
ISO-9241-3
    ISO 9241-3, Ergonomic requirements for office work with visual
    display terminals (VDTs) - Part 3: Visual display requirements.
    Amendment 1.
I18N-CHAR-ENC
    "Tutorial: Character sets & encodings in XHTML, HTML and CSS," R.
    Ishida, ed., This tutorial is available at
    http://www.w3.org/International/tutorials/tutorial-char-enc/. 
KNOBLAUCH
    Knoblauch, K., Arditi, A. and Szlyk, J. (1991). Effects of chromatic
    and luminance contrast on reading. Journal of the Optical Society of
    America A, 8, 428-439.
LAALS
    Bakke, M. H., Levitt, H., Ross, M., & Erickson, F. (1999). Large
    area assistive listening systems (ALS): Review and recommendations
    (PDF)
    <http://search.naric.com/research/rehab/download.cfm?ID=101662>
    (Final Report. NARIC Accession Number: O16430). Jackson Heights, NY:
    Lexington School for the Deaf/Center for the Deaf Rehabilitation
    Research Engineering Center on Hearing Enhancement. 
sRGB
    "A Standard Default Color Space for the Internet - sRGB," M. Stokes,
    M. Anderson, S. Chandrasekar, R. Motta, eds., Version 1.10, November
    5, 1996. A copy of this paper is available at
    http://www.w3.org/Graphics/Color/sRGB.html.
UNESCO
    International Standard Classification of Education, 1997. A copy of
    the standard is available at
    http://www.unesco.org/education/information/nfsunesco/doc/isced_1997.htm.
WCAG20
    "Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 2.0," B. Caldwell, M Cooper, L
    Guarino Reid, and G. Vanderheiden, eds., W3 Recommendation 12
    December 2008, http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211
    <http://www.w3.org/TR/2008/REC-WCAG20-20081211/>. The latest version
    of WCAG 2.0 is available at http://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/. 

